Home »General Information
Published on Rhodes College: Rhodes Catalogue (https://catalog.rhodes.edu/)
General Information
Printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/general-information
The Rhodes Vision
Rhodes  College aspires to graduate students with a life-long passion for learning, a
compassion for others, and the ability to translate academic study and personal concern
into effective leadership and action in their communities and the world. We will achieve our
aspiration through four strategic imperatives:
1. Student Access 
To attract and retain a talented, diverse student body and engage these students in a
challenging, inclusive and culturally broadening college experience.
2. Student Learning
To ensure our faculty and staff have the talent, the time and the resources to inspire
and involve our students in meaningful study, research and service.
3. Student Engagement
To enhance student opportunities for learning in Memphis.
4. Student Inspiration
To provide a residential place of learning that inspires integrity and high achievement
through its beauty, its emphasis on values, its Presbyterian history, and its heritage
as a leader in the liberal arts and sciences.
Rhodes College’s Commitment to Diversity
A diverse learning community is a necessary element of a liberal arts education, for self-
understanding is dependent upon the understanding of others. We, the members of
Rhodes College, are committed to fostering a community in which diversity is valued and
welcomed. To that end, Rhodes College does not discriminate – and will not tolerate
harassment – on the basis of race, gender, color, age, religion, disability, sexual
orientation, gender identity or expression, genetic information, and national or ethnicGeneral Information https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/52
1 of 74 7/25/23, 12:53 PM
origin.
We are committed to providing an open learning environment. Freedom of thought, a civil
exchange of ideas, and an appreciation of diverse perspectives are fundamental
characteristics of a community that is committed to critical inquiry. To promote such an
academic and social environment we expect integrity and honesty in our relationships with
each other and openness to learning about and experiencing cultural diversity. We believe
that these qualities are crucial to fostering social and intellectual maturity and personal
growth.
Intellectual maturity also requires individual struggle with unfamiliar ideas. We recognize
that our views and convictions will be challenged, and we expect this challenge to take
place in a climate of open-mindedness and mutual respect.
Revised July 2019
Printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/general-information/rhodes-vision
Accreditation and General Policies
Rhodes College is an accredited four-year college of liberal arts and sciences. With an
endowment of $394 million and a physical plant valued at $575 million, the College has
one of the largest investments per student ($482,000) in the nation.
Rhodes College is accredited by the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools -
Commission on Colleges (SACS COC) to award baccalaureate and master's degrees.
Contact the Commission on Colleges at 1866 Southern Lane, Decatur, Georgia,
30033-4097 or call 404-679-4500 for questions about the accreditation of Rhodes
College.   All potential substantive changes--whether proposed by students, faculty, staff,
or Board of Trustees-- must be discussed with and reviewed by the SACS COC
Accreditation Liaison, who is appointed by the Rhodes College President. It is the
responsibility of the SACS COC Accreditation Liaison to ensure that potential substantive
changes are reported to, and approved by the SACS COC, prior to implementation.
The purpose of this Policy and Procedures document is to comply with the Substantive
Change for Accredited Institutions of the Commission on Colleges, Policy Statement,
Institutional Obligations, Item #2, that “Member institutions are required to have a policy
and procedure to ensure that all substantive changes are reported to the Commission in a
timely fashion” (p. 1).
What Is a Substantive Change?
Substantive change is a signiﬁcant modiﬁcation or expansion in the nature and scope ofGeneral Information https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/52
2 of 74 7/25/23, 12:53 PM
an accredited institution. Under federal regulations, substantive change includes:
• Any change in the established mission or objectives of the institution
• Any change in legal status, form of control, or ownership of the institution
• The addition of courses or programs that represent a signiﬁcant departure, either in
content or method of delivery, from those that were offered when the institution was
last evaluated
• The addition of courses or programs of study at a degree or credential level different
from that which is included in the institution’s current accreditation or reafﬁrmation.
• A change from clock hours to credit hours
• A substantial increase in the number of clock or credit hours awarded for successful
completion of a program
• The establishment of an additional location geographically apart from the main
campus at which the institution offers at least 50 percent of an educational program.
• The establishment of a branch campus
• Closing a program, off-campus site, branch campus or institution
• Entering into a collaborative academic arrangement that includes only the initiation of
a dual degree program or a joint degree program with another institution
• Acquiring another institution or a program or location of another institution
• Adding a permanent location at a site where the institution is conducting a teach-out
program for a closed institution
• Entering into a contract by which an entity not eligible for Title IV funding offers 25%
or more of one or more of the accredited institution’s programs
What Are the Procedures for Reporting Substantive Change?
SACS COC has identiﬁed three procedures for addressing the different types of
substantive changes. These include:
Procedure One  – for the review of substantive changes requiring notiﬁcation and
approval prior to implementation,
Procedure Two  – for the review of substantive changes requiring only notiﬁcation prior to
implementation, and
Procedure Three  – for closing a program, site, branch campus or institution.
The different types of substantive change, the speciﬁc procedure to be used for each, their
respective approval notiﬁcation requirements, and their reporting time lines are included in
the document “Substantive Change for Accredited Institutions of the Commission on
Colleges - Policy Statement” located on pages 6-9 at: www.sacscoc.org/pdf/081705
/Substantive%20change%20policy.pdf.General Information https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/52
3 of 74 7/25/23, 12:53 PM
Procedures for the institutional changes such as mergers, acquiring or adding programs,
or changes in governance or legal status can be found in a separate document, “Mergers,
Consolidations, Change of Ownership, Acquisitions, and Change of Governance, Control,
Form, or Legal Status.” at:
www.sacscoc.org/subchg/policy/Mergers.pdf .
The initiation or revision of programs not offered for academic credit and that are not
eligible for federal ﬁnancial aid does not require reporting: however, such programs are
subject to review at the time of reafﬁrmation.
Identifying and reporting substantive change
The President is responsible for:
• Submitting substantive change notiﬁcation letters and associated documentation to
the President of the SACS COC and providing a copy of the letters and
documentation to the Accreditation Liaison
or
• Designating the Accreditation Liaison as his representative to submit substantive
change notiﬁcation letters and associated documentation to the President of the
SACS COC
The President and Vice Presidents are responsible for:
• Informing relevant personnel under their supervision about the existence of the
SACS COC Policy on Substantive Change and the need to check with the
Accreditation Liaison regarding any and all signiﬁcant changes in policy to determine
if they meet the criteria for a substantive change as deﬁned in the policy
• Consulting with the College’s SACS COC Accreditation Liaison regarding questions
about substantive changes within their divisions
• Providing sufﬁcient time to notify the SACS COC prior to the implementation of any
changes
• Assisting with the writing of appropriate documentation and notiﬁcation of substantive
changes as needed by the SACS COC
The SACS COC Accreditation Liaison is appointed by the President and is responsible for:
• Staying up to date with the SACS COC Substantive Change Policy Statement
• Serving as the contact person and communication liaison between SACS COC staff
and the College regarding substantive change matters
• Meeting with the President and Vice Presidents yearly to review the policy andGeneral Information https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/52
4 of 74 7/25/23, 12:53 PM
planned initiatives
• Working with the appropriate Vice President to develop a plan of action and timeline
for any substantive change actions requiring approval from the SACS COC
• Preparing substantive change prospectus in collaboration with the appropriate
administrators and faculty
• Submitting substantive change notiﬁcation letters and associated documentation to
the President of the SACS COC as requested by the President
• Maintaining a database of substantive changes, initiatives, action plans and their
status
Attendance at Rhodes, a privately endowed college, is a privilege which may be forfeited
at any time by any student who refuses or fails to conform to the regulations and
standards of the College, or who is unwilling to adjust to the College’s traditions and
environment. Among these traditions are the Honor System and the Social Regulations
Council that are administered by students and are described elsewhere in the catalogue.
Certain offenses and violations of College rules are considered serious enough to merit
suspension or expulsion. Additionally, the College reserves the right to suspend or expel
any student, if, in the sole discretion of the administration, such suspension or expulsion is
necessary to protect the best interests or welfare of the College, including the health and
well-being of other students, faculty, or staff.
Rhodes welcomes applications for admission from all persons and does not discriminate
on the basis of gender, race, color, age, religion, disability, sexual orientation, or national
and ethnic origin in its admissions policies, loan programs, or other college educational
programs, policies and activities. In compliance with section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act
of 1973 and the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, Rhodes will make every
reasonable effort to accommodate the needs of its students with disabilities.
The information, policies, and procedures listed in this catalogue are current and up-to-
date as of April  2022. Policies stated in this catalogue are expected to be in effect through
the academic year 2022-2023 but are subject to revision. Normally, policy revisions are
implemented in the next academic year, following notice thereof and are effective for all
students who graduate in or after that academic year. However, occasionally a policy must
be changed and implemented in the same academic year. In such cases, written
notiﬁcation of the revision will be mailed to all students currently enrolled.
The faculty of Rhodes College has the authority and the responsibility for establishing and
maintaining those policies and procedures governing the academic standing of students at
the College. Any deviation from the policies and procedures stated in this catalogue
relating to academic standing requires the prior formal approval of the faculty. A
compendium of all current policies and procedures in regard to the College is maintained
in the ofﬁce of the President.
Printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/general-information/accreditation-and-general-
policiesGeneral Information https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/52
5 of 74 7/25/23, 12:53 PM
Admission
Application Procedure
An applicant who wishes to apply for admission to Rhodes may do so any time after the
end of his/her/their junior year in high school. Applicants may apply using the Common
Application ( www.commonapp.org ). No application fee is required for ﬁrst-year or transfer
students.
Admission to Rhodes is competitive.
In addition to the application for admission, ﬁrst-year applicants must submit an ofﬁcial
high school transcript,  a secondary school report, a teacher evaluation, and a midyear
report (Regular Decision only). Applicants may provide standardized test scores (SAT or
ACT) which can be self-reported. In addition to submitting the same application supporting
documents as all other ﬁrst-year applicants, home-schooled applicants are strongly
recommended to participate in an interview with an admission counselor and may submit
the results of two SAT Subject Tests from areas other than English or Mathematics. The
deadlines for submitting the application for admission and all supporting documents are
referenced in the following Early Decision Plans, Early Action Plan, and Regular Decision
Plan sections. Please note that all accepted applicants are automatically considered for
competitive scholarships. Transcripts and other documents required for admission
become part of the permanent ﬁle of an enrolled student and cannot be returned or legally
copied for the student or parent.
The College is a member of the National Association for College Admission Counseling
(NACAC) and endorses the principles contained in the Association’s Guide to Ethical
Practice  in College Admission.
Admission Selection Process
Academic Record. An applicant's academic record is of primary importance in the
admission selection process. Applicants must complete  sixteen or more academic units in
high school, including at least four years of English, two years of the same foreign
language (classical or modern), two years of laboratory science and two years of history
or social science. Furthermore, applicants are expected to have completed the
mathematics course sequence Algebra I, Geometry, and Algebra II or their equivalent. A
fourth year of high school mathematics, including trigonometry and advanced algebra is
especially important for students who plan to study mathematics, natural science,
computer science, economics or business administration. Applicants with slightly different
high school curricula may be considered only if their records in other respects clearly
indicate readiness for Rhodes’ program of study. Applicants are expected to haveGeneral Information https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/52
6 of 74 7/25/23, 12:53 PM
received or be in the process of receiving a high school diploma or G.E.D.
Special note is taken in the decision making process of honors, Advanced Placement,
International Baccalaureate, Cambridge, Option International Baccalaureate, accelerated
or enriched courses. Applicants who have taken college-level courses and wish to receive
credit at Rhodes for those courses should refer to “Transfer Credit” in the Requirements
for a Degree section of this catalogue.
Standardized Test Scores. All applicants for admission have the option to submit
standardized test scores, either ACT or SAT. If planning to apply with a test score, it is
advisable for the applicant to take the test in the junior year as a means of adjusting to this
type of examination or for Early Decision,  Early Action, or Early Admission purposes. Any
applicant who intends to submit scores as a Regular Decision applicant should take the
test no later than December of the senior year so that their scores will be available to the
Admission Committee by January 15. At the time of application, scores may be provided
in the secondary school record, self-reported by applicants or received from the testing
agency.  Test application forms may be obtained from high schools or by registering for
them online at www.collegeboard.org  (SAT) or www.act.org  (ACT).
Supporting Documents. Additional supporting documents will be considered when
deciding on an applicant's admissibility to the College. These documents include a listing
of extracurricular involvements, leadership positions or summer experiences, an
application essay, a secondary school report, and a teacher’s evaluation.
Applicant Interest. A visit to the Rhodes campus (in addition to other demonstrations of
interest) can be a deciding factor in making an admission decision. Interest may also be
demonstrated by meeting with an admission ofﬁcer locally, virtually or personally
corresponding with the Ofﬁce of Admission. An applicant's ability to pay  may be a deciding
factor when considering applicants who rank within the lowest range of admissible
students.
The Vice President for Enrollment has the discretion to deny any application to Rhodes
College.
Applicants who wish to appeal their admission decision may do so by writing to the Vice
President for Enrollment requesting reconsideration.
Campus Visit and Personal Meeting
A campus visit is the best way to experience life at Rhodes. Applicants are encouraged to
visit between Monday and Friday so that, in addition to a personal meeting with an
admission representative or information session and a campus tour, they may attend a
class and meet faculty (during the academic year).  General Information https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/52
7 of 74 7/25/23, 12:53 PM
Virtual visits allow applicants to experience a campus tour, information session, and a
meeting with an admission counselor, coach, or faculty member while being remote. The
Ofﬁce of Admission is open year round from 8:30 am to 5:00 pm Monday through Friday
and on select Saturdays.
Prospective applicants and applicants may arrange a campus visit online at
www.rhodes.edu/visit . Questions concerning a campus visit may be addressed to our
Campus Visit Coordinator at 1-800-844-5969 or, locally, 901-843-3700.
Early Decision Plans
Applicants who are certain they want to attend Rhodes may wish to take advantage of
either Early Decision I (ED I) or Early Decision II (ED II). Under these plans, the applicant
must submit an application for admission, high school transcript (including grades for the
ﬁrst marking period of the senior year), secondary school report, letters of
recommendation, and the Early Decision Agreement form by November 1 for Early
Decision I or January 15 for Early Decision II. Standardized test scores may be submitted
by the applicant for consideration. The applicant may apply to other colleges, but not
under any other Early Decision Plan. If accepted and provided adequate ﬁnancial
assistance, the applicant agrees to withdraw all applications submitted to other
institutions, ﬁle no additional applications, and enroll at Rhodes.
Typically, Early Decision applicants who wish to be considered for need-based ﬁnancial
aid must complete and submit the Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) to the
Ofﬁce of Financial Aid by November 1 for Early Decision I and November 15  for Early
Decision II in order to determine eligibility for non-federal ﬁnancial assistance as well as
for federal and/or state ﬁnancial assistance. For the 2023-24 academic year, Early
Decision I applicants will be required to submit the CSS Proﬁle Light given the delayed
launch and availability of the FAFSA. Applicants interested in receiving federal and state
ﬁnancial aid must submit the FAFSA.
Under the Early Decision Plans, the College agrees to render a decision on admission by
November 15 for Early Decision I and February 1 for Early Decision II. Admitted applicants
who are applying for need-based ﬁnancial aid and have submitted the FAFSA will be
contacted by the Ofﬁce of Financial Aid concerning their request by December 1 for Early
Decision I and February 1 for Early Decision II.
Early Decision is a binding agreement, designed for applicants for whom Rhodes is their
top college choice. If accepted under the Early Decision Plan (and provided with ﬁnancial
assistance considered adequate by the applicant), the applicant is expected to submit the
required deposit (as explained under Enrollment Deposit)  by December 1 for Early
Decision I and February 15 for Early Decision II. Offers of admission and ﬁnancial aid to
accepted applicants who do not enroll at the college will be rescinded.General Information https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/52
8 of 74 7/25/23, 12:53 PM
If a decision on the application cannot be reached, the applicant will be notiﬁed that the
application will be deferred and guaranteed unbiased consideration under Regular
Decision.
Early Action Plan
Applicants who wish to know of their admission decision earlier in the year but are not
prepared to make an enrollment decision prior to May 1 may wish to apply under our Early
Action Plan. Early Action is an excellent option for applicants who are comfortable
presenting their application earlier in the process.
Under this plan, the applicant must submit an application for admission, high school
transcript, secondary school report, and letters of recommendation by November 15.
Optional standardized test scores, if submitted, must also be provided by November 15.  
Early Action applicants who wish to be considered for need-based ﬁnancial aid must
complete and submit the Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) to the Ofﬁce of
Financial Aid by November 15 in order to determine eligibility for non-federal ﬁnancial
assistance as well as for federal and/or state ﬁnancial assistance.   Early Action applicants
will be required to submit the CSS Proﬁle Light given the delayed launch and availability of
the FAFSA. Applicants interested in receiving federal and state ﬁnancial aid must submit
the FAFSA.
Under the Early Action Plan, the Ofﬁce of Admission will render an admission decision by
January 15. Applicants will be notiﬁed of any scholarships and/or need-based aid they are
eligible to receive by January 15. Admitted students have until May 1 to submit their
enrollment deposit.
For various reasons, the Ofﬁce of Admission may choose to defer an application to
Regular Decision. The applicant will be notiﬁed that the application will be deferred and
reconsidered under Regular Decision.
Regular Decision Plan
Under this plan, applicants must submit an application for admission, high school
transcript, secondary school report, and letters of recommendation by January 15.
Optional standardized test scores, if submitted, must be provided by January 15.
Regular Decision applicants who wish to be considered for need-based ﬁnancial aid must
complete and submit the Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) by January
15.  
Under the Regular Decision Plan, the Ofﬁce of Admission will render an admission
decision by April 1. Applicants will also be notiﬁed of any scholarships and/or need-basedGeneral Information https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/52
9 of 74 7/25/23, 12:53 PM
aid they are eligible to receive by April 1. Admitted applicants have until May 1 to submit
their enrollment deposit.
Early Admission Plan
High school students who wish to enroll at Rhodes as degree-seeking students prior to
completion of their secondary schooling may apply under the Early Admission Plan. This
option is provided for those students who have demonstrated exceptional ability and
motivation in secondary school and are ready to experience the challenges of a college
education earlier than normal.
To be eligible for consideration, an applicant must submit an application for admission, a
high school transcript including grades for ﬁve semesters of course work, a secondary
school report, a teacher’s evaluation, SAT or ACT test scores, and have a personal
meeting with an admission representative. Successful applicants will have satisﬁed
Rhodes’ general admission requirements, including the academic units requirements
outlined under “Admission Selection Process” above. Normally, it will be necessary for an
Early Admission applicant to enroll at a local college or university in the summer prior to
their enrollment at Rhodes in order to fulﬁll any academic requirements.
Early Admission applicants must normally have the support of their secondary school
counselor and of their parents or caregivers in order to be considered for admission under
the plan.
Deferred Enrollment
Applicants who have been admitted for admission and wish to delay their enrollment at
Rhodes for a semester or a year may request Deferred Enrollment by writing the Dean of
Admission. The letter requesting Deferred Enrollment must indicate the length of time
requested for deferral, the reason for requesting the deferral, and the proposed actions of
the applicant during the time of the deferral. The Dean of Admission will respond to the
deferral request in writing. If deferred enrollment is granted, the applicant must submit a
nonrefundable $1,000.00 enrollment deposit to the Ofﬁce of Admission. Applicants who
have been admitted from the wait list are typically not offered deferred enrollment. The
Vice President for Enrollment may waive the increased enrollment deposit in certain
cases.
Admitted applicants requesting deferral who have been awarded one of the College’s
competitive scholarships or fellowships may retain the award.  
Deferred applicants may not enroll in additional high school course work or in more than
two college courses for credit in any one semester/term during their time of deferral. Doing
so nulliﬁes their admission and scholarship offers (if any) and requires new admission and
scholarship decisions to be rendered. Applicants wishing to enroll in college courses areGeneral Information https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/52
10 of 74 7/25/23, 12:53 PM
advised to consult with the Ofﬁce of Admission to ensure credit will transfer to Rhodes.
Admission of Transfer Students
Rhodes welcomes applications from students who wish to transfer from other accredited
colleges or universities. Applicants who have enrolled in more than two courses in any
one semester or term at another college or university are considered transfer students.
Applicants who have not graduated from high school, but have taken college course work,
are not considered transfer students.
A transfer applicant should go to www.commonapp.org  to access the Common App online
for transfer students. The applicant should have ofﬁcial transcripts from his/her/their
secondary school and all postsecondary institutions attended sent directly to the Ofﬁce of
Admission. Submitting SAT or ACT scores is optional. Unofﬁcial copies of transcripts and
score reports may be accepted by the Ofﬁce of Admission for review purposes, although
ofﬁcial copies must be sent before an admitted applicant enrolls.  Transfer applicants must
submit a college instructor evaluation, a College Ofﬁcial’s Report and a personal letter
explaining the reason(s) for wanting to transfer to Rhodes. Transfer applicants who have
previously applied for admission to Rhodes may complete a Reapply Form in lieu of the
Common Application and submit a ﬁnal high school transcript, college transcript, College
Ofﬁcial's Report and explanation of why they wish to transfer to be considered for
admission.
Transfer applicants applying for January entrance must also submit a Mid-Semester
Grade Report (available on www.rhodes.edu ) containing grade estimates from their
professors. Admission and scholarship decisions are made in the context of both the
secondary and post-secondary academic record. Prior college work is evaluated in light of
Rhodes’ established degree requirements. Transfer applicants whose prior work is not
compatible with a Rhodes degree program may ﬁnd it necessary to extend their college
career in order to complete all requirements for a degree.
Rhodes’ admission policy is to only consider transfer applications from students who are
in good standing at the last institution attended. Those under academic or disciplinary
suspension are not encouraged to apply to Rhodes until eligible for readmission to the
suspending institution.
Transfer from an unaccredited college requires a more thorough analysis of academic
credentials. If accepted, the applicant will be placed on probationary status for one
academic year and will be expected to maintain a record satisfactory to the Faculty
Standards and Standing Committee. Prospective applicants coming from colleges not
accredited by a regional accrediting agency may ﬁnd the acceptance of transfer credit to
be very limited.
For more information regarding the transfer of credit, see “Transfer Credit” in theGeneral Information https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/52
11 of 74 7/25/23, 12:53 PM
Requirements for a Degree section of this catalogue.
Admission of International Students
Rhodes encourages international students living both abroad and in the United States to
apply for admission. International students are those individuals who are not citizens or
permanent residents (resident alien status) of the United States.
In addition to those documents required of all ﬁrst-year or transfer applicants, international
applicants must have the ofﬁcial results of the Test of English as a Foreign Language
(TOEFL), the International English Language Testing System (IELTS) or the Duolingo
English Test (DET) forwarded to the Ofﬁce of Admission from the appropriate testing
agency. The English Proﬁciency exams are not required for native English-speaking
applicants or if English is the primary language of instruction for at least two years of
secondary school. International applicants may apply as test-optional and choose not to
submit SAT or ACT scores but must still submit TOEFL/IELTS/DET scores, as applicable.
All transcripts must include a certiﬁed English translation. International applicants who
have studied at other colleges or universities must have ofﬁcial transcripts from those
institutions sent to Rhodes.
All international applicants  must submit the Rhodes Financial Supplement. It serves as the
Certiﬁcation of Finances which is required for issuance of  a student visa from the United
States government. International applicants may be eligible and competitive for merit-
based scholarships ranging from US $12,000 to $40,000.
Rhodes strives to meet the demonstrated ﬁnancial need of admitted international
applicants.  Need-based ﬁnancial aid for international applicants (non-U.S. citizens) is
determined from the Rhodes Non-Citizen Financial Supplement. Aid is awarded in the
form of grants or "gift" aid, which varies in dollar amounts according to each applicant's
demonstrated ﬁnancial need. Admitted international applicants may also be considered for
on-campus student employment.
Admission of Special Students (Non-degree Candidates)
Applicants who give evidence of sufﬁcient academic ability may be admitted as special
students to a course of study not leading directly to a degree, but allowing them to pursue
that work for which they are best prepared and/or which they particularly need. Special
students may enroll in no more than two classes, or for no more than eight credits per
semester. Special students who wish to audit classes are limited to taking one course per
semester.
Special students are not eligible to live in the residence halls or participate in
intercollegiate athletics, fraternity or sorority membership, or other extracurricular
activities. In addition, special students are not eligible for any Rhodes or federal ﬁnancialGeneral Information https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/52
12 of 74 7/25/23, 12:53 PM
aid funds. Directed Inquiries are not ordinarily available to special students. Should a
special student subsequently become a degree candidate, credits earned while a special
student are applicable towards the degree sought.
The deadline for submission of a special student application, including most recent
transcript from high school or college, is two weeks prior to the beginning of a new
semester/term.
Special student admission material is submitted only once. Students who have attended
Rhodes as a special student and wish to continue their studies as a special student should
report directly to Rhodes Express and register for classes during the ﬁrst three days of a
new semester/term.
Special students who have enrolled in two or more courses at another institution must
reapply for special student status through the Ofﬁce of Admission. A student seeking
readmission as a special student will normally be held to the same academic standards as
full-time, degree-seeking students at Rhodes.
Special students are held to the same standards of academic progress regarding
academic probation and suspension as degree-seeking students.
Readmission of Students
Students who have voluntarily withdrawn from the College and have taken two courses or
less in any one term at another institution, and students who have been academically
suspended from Rhodes and wish to return, must apply for readmission through the
Faculty Standards and Standing Committee.
Returning students, including those who have already graduated from Rhodes, must
complete an Application for Readmission (obtained from the Registrar’s Ofﬁce) which
requests current information about the student, including an account of activities and
educational experiences during the absence from Rhodes. In many cases interviews with
the Dean of the Faculty and the Dean of Students will be necessary to complete the
readmission process. Students seeking to be readmitted must initiate their requests at
least two months prior to the beginning of a new semester.
Students who have voluntarily withdrawn from Rhodes and have taken more than two
courses in any one term or semester at another institution are considered transfer
students. These students must apply for readmission to Rhodes through the Ofﬁce of
Admission submitting the required applications and supporting documents.
Rhodes High School Scholars Program
Rhodes allows high school students who have demonstrated exceptional ability andGeneral Information https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/52
13 of 74 7/25/23, 12:53 PM
motivation to begin their college work while completing their secondary school course of
study. Such a student may enroll in up to two courses per semester at Rhodes.
To be eligible for consideration to the Rhodes High School Scholars Program, an applicant
must complete an admission application; have scored at least 1140 on the SAT Critical
Reading and Math tests or 25 on the ACT; rank in the upper one-ﬁfth of his/her/their class;
 have taken a very demanding course load, have a positive high school recommendation;
and have a personal interview with an admission representative.
Course fees per credit hour are the same as Special Student tuition (see “Special Fees
and Deposits” in the Expenses section). Financial aid is typically not available for students
participating in the program. Participation in the High School Scholars Program will require
coordination of the student’s college and high school course schedules. The Ofﬁce of
Admission will gladly assist the students, teachers, and counselors with these
arrangements.
Advanced Placement
Rhodes will typically grant course credit to entering students who score either 4 or 5 on a
College Board Advanced Placement examination. Those who score 3 on an Advanced
Placement examination may enroll in advanced course work if the relevant department
recommends it. 
Cambridge Pre-U, Cambridge A and AS Levels, International
Baccalaureate, and Option International Baccalaureate Degree
Programs
Rhodes recognizes the Cambridge Pre-U, A-Level and AS-level exams,  International
Baccalaureate, and Option International Baccalaureate academic programs and
welcomes for review the submission of scores on these examinations. Course credit is
typically granted for examinations on each of these programs passed with sufﬁciently high
scores: M3 or higher in Cambridge Pre-U Principal Subject: C or higher in Cambridge A
and AS levels:   5, 6 or 7 in IB Higher Level; 13 or higher in OIB.  An IB score of 4 may
qualify a student for advanced course work, subject to review by the appropriate academic
department. 
A maximum combined total of thirty-two (32) credits may be earned through Advanced
Placement, Cambridge Pre-U, International Baccalaureate, and Option International
Baccalaureate examinations.
Advanced Placement, Cambridge Pre-U, International Baccalaureate, and Option
International Baccalaureate credit may not be used to satisfy Rhodes’ Foundation
requirements except for scores in English and, in certain subjects, scores of 5 on AP
exams, D3 or higher on Cambridge Pre-U exams, 6 or 7 on IB higher-level exams, and 16General Information https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/52
14 of 74 7/25/23, 12:53 PM
or higher on Option International Baccalaureate exams. All students must take the Rhodes
placement test in the appropriate language to determine proﬁciency and placement,
including students who took an AP language exam in that language. For more information
about Advanced Placement and International Baccalaureate credit, go to this Transfer
Credit Equivalencies Chart .
An applicant, who has successfully completed advanced secondary school education,
including the British Advanced Level Examinations, the French Baccalaureate, the
German Abitur, or the equivalent, may receive some advanced standing or transfer credit
at Rhodes for that work. Such credit is not granted, however, until the applicant has
enrolled at Rhodes, at which time his/her/their credentials will be reviewed by the
Registrar and the academic departments in which the credit(s) will be applied.
Enrollment Deposit
In order to reserve a place in the class, all admitted applicants must submit a non-
refundable $500.00 enrollment deposit to the College. Mailed deposits must be
postmarked no later than our deadline of May 1 (December 1 for Early Decision I;
February 15 for Early Decision II; June 15 for transfer students). The deposit is not an
extra charge but is credited to the student’s account and deducted from other expenses.
The balance of the ﬁrst tuition, fees, room and board payment is due in early August. The
College cannot guarantee that a residence hall room will be available unless this balance
is paid at that time.
Orientation and Registration
All new students are expected to attend the Open Rhodes Orientation program during the
summer prior to enrollment and to be present for Welcome Week, which immediately
precedes the opening of the College. Orientation is designed to acquaint new students
with the traditions, ideals, academic expectations, and regulations of Rhodes and to give
them an opportunity to plan their courses of study in consultation with members of the
faculty. During Orientation and Welcome Week, new students will also meet with the
representatives of various student organizations, take placement tests, receive instruction
in the use of the library, participate in social events and attend discussions with
administrative ofﬁcers of the College. Additional information about the Open Rhodes
summer orientation program is available online at  https://rhodes.edu/admission-
aid/admitted-students/summer-orientation .
A complete medical examination and record of immunization are required of all full-time
new students. This medical examination should take place prior to matriculation. The
results of the examination along with immunization records, recorded on a form provided
by the College, must be on ﬁle in the College Student Health Center before registration.
Failure to provide the form may result in not being permitted to register and not beingGeneral Information https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/52
15 of 74 7/25/23, 12:53 PM
provided medical services until the form has been received. In the case of insufﬁcient or
missing medical data, the student may be granted provisional registration. Proof of health
insurance is required of all students. A copy of your insurance card will be requested with
the completed Health Form. Failure to provide proof of insurance may result in not being
permitted to register and will result in not being provided medical services.
Additional Information
Ofﬁce of Admission business hours are 8:30 a.m. to 5:00 p.m., Monday through Friday
(Central Time). Additional information is available upon request. Contact:
Ofﬁce of Admission
Rhodes College
2000 North Parkway
Memphis, Tennessee 38112-1690
Telephone: 901-843-3700 or toll-free 1-800-844-5969
Fax: 901-843-3631
E-mail:  adminfo@rhodes.edu
Online:  rhodes.edu/admission
Printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/general-information/admission
Expenses
The cost of an education at Rhodes is of concern to students, their families, and to the
College. Rhodes has been able to hold charges for tuition, room, and board to about 75%
of the total cost of a student’s education. The College’s success in annual fundraising and
the substantial income derived from the endowment have enabled Rhodes to hold costs
below those at many comparable colleges. The tuition charge includes some services in
the College Health Services Center, admission to athletic events, and a wide range of
activities sponsored by academic departments or the College at large. The student activity
fee supports student publications and student organizations, as well as many College-
sponsored social activities which are held throughout the year. A summary of costs for the
2023-2024 academic year is listed below; students should bear in mind that charges for
textbooks and supplies are not included.
  Semester Year
Tuition (Full Time) 27,041.00 54,082.00
Activity Fee 155.00 310.00
Health & Wellness Fee 250.00 500.00General Information https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/52
16 of 74 7/25/23, 12:53 PM
Tuition Refund Plan Coverage (Resident)   437.00
Tuition Refund Plan Coverage (Commuter)   354.00
Education Licensure Tuition 7,500.00  
Study Abroad Program Tuition, Rhodes Tuition Only 27,041.00  
Study Abroad Program Tuition, Rhodes Tuition & Room Only 30,784.00  
Study Abroad Program Tuition, Rhodes Tuition, Room,
Partial Board32,032.00  
Study Abroad Program Tuition, Rhodes Tuition, Room, Full
Board33,434.00  
Global Ghana Program 32,032.00  
New York Internship Program 30,784.00  
     
Room Type and Meals Per Week    
Standard Multiple 15 meals per week  6,216.00 12,432.00
Standard Single 15 meals per week  6,846.00 13,692.00
Standard Multiple Unlimited meals per week  6,455.00 12,910.00
Standard Single Unlimited meals per week  7,085.00 14,170.00
East Village A&B Multiple 7 meals per week 5,913.00 11,826.00
East Village A&B Single 7 meals per week 6,217.00 12,434.00
East Village A&B Multiple 15 meals per week 7,176.00 14,352.00
East Village A&B Single 15 meals per week 7,480.00 14,960.00
East Village A&B Multiple Unlimited meals per week  7,415.00 14,830.00
East Village A&B Single Unlimited meals per week  7,719.00 15,438.00
West Village/EV-C Multiple 15 meals per week 6,994.00 13,988.00
West Village/EV-C Single 15 meals per week 7,360.00 14,720.00
West Village/EV-C Multiple Unlimited meals per week   7,233.00 14,466.00
West Village/EV-C Single Unlimited meals per week   7,599.00 15,198.00
East Village C Townhouse Multiple 7 meals per week 5,822.00 11,644.00
East Village C Townhouse Single 7 meals per week 6,157.00 12,314.00General Information https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/52
17 of 74 7/25/23, 12:53 PM
East Village C Townhouse Multiple 15 meals per week 7,085.00 14,170.00
East Village C Townhouse Single 15 meals per week 7,420.00 14,840.00
East Village C Townhouse Multiple Unlimited meals per week  7,324.00 14,648.00
East Village C Townhouse Single Unlimited meals per week  7,659.00 15,318.00
Parkway/Spann Rm/Bd Multiple 7 meals per week 5,913.00 11,826.00
Parkway/Spann Single 7 meals per week 6,217.00 12,434.00
Parkway/Spann Multiple 15 meals per week 7,176.00 14,352.00
Parkway/Spann Single 15 meals per week 7,480.00 14,960.00
Parkway/Spann Multiple Unlimited meals per week  7,415.00 14,830.00
Parkway/Spann Single Unlimited meals per week  7,719.00 15,438.00
Commuter Plan 5 meals per week 978.00 1,956.00
Commuter Plan 7 meals per week 1,351.00 2,702.00
Commuter Plan 15 meals per week 2,080.00 4,160.00
Commuter Plan Unlimited meals per week 2,554.00 5,108.00
The regular college plan provides for payment of tuition and associated fees in two
installments prior to the beginning of classes each semester. Students are billed less
deposits already made.
If monthly payments are preferred by parents and/or guardians, Rhodes allows such
payments through Nelnet. A link for enrolling in the monthly payment plan offered by
Nelnet will be included with the semester e-bill sent prior to each semester. If a monthly
plan is chosen, arrangements should be made prior to the beginning of classes each
semester.
The College has also made arrangements with A.W.G. Dewar, Inc. to offer a tuition refund
coverage plan to Rhodes parents that will provide a refund in case of illness or accident
causing the student to withdraw before the semester is completed. Information concerning
the tuition refund plan that details the protection provided and cost of the coverage will be
provided to parents before the ﬁrst payment is due.  Parents and students have the option
of waiving the coverage prior to the beginning of the fall semester.
Regulations Regarding Billing and Payment
A bill for the tuition charge along with applicable room and board and other charges will beGeneral Information https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/52
18 of 74 7/25/23, 12:53 PM
sent electronically before each semester to the student and those whom the student has
set up as authorized payers. Unless prior arrangements acceptable to the Bursar of the
College are made, a student’s account not paid in full prior to classes will be regarded as
delinquent. A student whose account is delinquent will be denied the privileges of
registration, attending classes, obtaining academic transcripts, using College facilities, or
being admitted to graduation.
Students may enroll in courses totaling up to nineteen credit hours in each semester.
Students who receive permission to enroll in more than nineteen credit hours in a
semester must pay the extra credit hour fee and exceptions are not made to this policy.
Once a student moves into a residence hall room, room and board charges for the full
semester are due and payable on the student’s account. Even if the student moves out of
the room during the semester, the full room and board charges for that semester remain
due on the student’s account. Because of the high demand for College housing, the
student who is not withdrawing from Rhodes and is a resident only in the Fall Semester
will be ﬁned $500 if he/she is not moved out of the room by the day after the last ﬁnal
examination of the Fall Semester.
Students living in the residence halls are required to be on a meal plan.  First-year
students are assigned an unlimited meal plan.   Returning students may choose either the
15 meals per week dining plan or the unlimited, all-access dining plan. Returning students
living in East Village A, East Village B, East Village C Townhouses, Parkway Hall, or
Spann Place also have the option of choosing the 7 meals per week dining plan. There
are no exceptions to this policy. Meals may be taken in either the Burrow Refectory or with
a cash equivalency in the Lynx Lair. Returning students  are given the opportunity to
choose the board plan they prefer prior to the start of the school year. Board plan changes
for returning students are accepted thru the end of the ﬁrst week of classes each
semester. Non-resident students may purchase one of the commuter meal plan options by
contacting Rhodes Express prior to the beginning of the semester.
All students living in the residence halls must pay the full comprehensive tuition,
regardless of the number of credit hours taken in the semester.
If at some point it becomes necessary to turn the student account over for collection, the
student will be required to reimburse the College the fees of any collection agency, which
may be based on a percentage of the debt, and all costs and expenses, including
reasonable attorney’s fees, incurred by the College in such collection efforts.
Withdrawal Policy
All requests for withdrawal must be initiated by the student through the Ofﬁce of StudentGeneral Information https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/52
19 of 74 7/25/23, 12:53 PM
Life. The ofﬁcial date of withdrawal will be the last day that the student attended class.
Once the Bursar has received all the necessary information concerning the withdrawal,
the ﬁnancial accounts of the student will be settled based upon the policies below.
Involuntary withdrawals (i.e. suspensions or expulsions) are handled the same as
voluntary withdrawals in that tuition and other fees remain due for the semester in which
the suspension or expulsion occurs.
TUITION: If a student has attended classes, the full semester’s tuition is due and payable
to the College regardless of the date of withdrawal, unless the student withdraws due to
protracted illness or injury. Should this illness be certiﬁed by a physician, psychologist, or
other qualiﬁed professional that it prevents the completion of the semester’s academic
work, a pro-rata charge for tuition will be made on the following basis (“days” is deﬁned as
days when classes are scheduled, i.e. ﬁve days per week).
Withdrawal DatePro-rata Semester Tuition Due
(for medical reasons only)
First 10 days of semester 25%
11th through 25th day 50%
26th through 35th day 75%
After 35th day of semester 100%
FINANCIAL AID: Rhodes ﬁnancial aid remains credited to the account on the same basis
as the charge for tuition above. When a student leaves the college, however, federal,
state, and/or institutional ﬁnancial aid funds may need to be returned to the entity
providing the funding. The Bursar will determine the amount of unearned ﬁnancial aid
received by the student. The return of those funds may create a balance due to the
college, and it is the student’s responsibility to pay that balance.
ROOM AND BOARD: The full room and board charges for the semester remain due and
payable for any semester the student occupies a residence hall room. The charges remain
due regardless of the date or reason for withdrawal. There are no pro-rata refunds of room
and board charges.
HEALTH & WELLNESS AND  ACTIVITY FEES: The full Health & Wellness and  activity fee
charges for the semester remain s due and payable for any semester the student attends
classes, regardless of the date or reason for withdrawal.
Special Fees and Deposits
Enrollment Deposit. $500.00. Applies to incoming students only. The deposit, due by May
1, is non-refundable.General Information https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/52
20 of 74 7/25/23, 12:53 PM
Open Rhodes (orientation) Fee. $200.00
Part-time Tuition (Undergraduate non-resident degree candidates taking 11 credit hours or
less or graduate non-resident degree candidates taking 7 credit hours or less). $2,315.00
per credit hour.
Special Student Tuition (Students not seeking a degree at Rhodes). $1,230.00 per credit
hour.
Special Student Tuition, Audit Rate. $615.00 per credit hour.
Summer Course Tuition, 2023. $900.00 per credit hour.
Summer Directed Inquiry and Internship Tuition, 2023. $615.00 per credit hour. All
students earning Rhodes credit for directed inquiries and internships during the summer
must be charged this rate in order to receive the credit.
Extra Credit Hour Fee. $850.00 per credit hour. This fee is charged of degree-seeking
students enrolling in more than nineteen (19) credits in a semester.
Applied Music Fee. Students enrolled in applied music will be charged an additional fee of
$490.00 per credit hour for private lessons. After the ﬁrst applied music lesson, this
applied lesson fee is nonrefundable.
Once declared, Music majors will have the Applied Music fees waived for up to eight (8)
credits of their principal applied instrument. Music majors taking more than eight (8)
credits of Applied Music and lessons taken prior to declaration of the major will be charged
the applied fee for those credits.
Once declared, Music minors will have the Applied Music fees waived for up to four (4)
credits of Applied Music and lessons taken prior to declaration of the minor will be charged
the applied fee for those credits.
If a student fails to graduate as a music major or minor, the applied lesson fees that would
have otherwise been assessed will be retroactively added to the student’s account.
NOTE: Music Talent Award and Fine Arts Award recipients' conditions for waivers of
Applied Music fees are outlined in their award letters, which supersedes music major and
minor fee waivers as contained here.
Extended Living During Winter Recess Fee (for certain dorms). $600.00
Late Registration Fee. $50.00
Late Payment Fee. $25.00General Information https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/52
21 of 74 7/25/23, 12:53 PM
Key Fob Replacement Fee. $25.00
Student ID Card Replacement Fee. $10.00
Printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/general-information/expenses
Financial Aid
Financial Aid
Rhodes invests substantial funds in institutional ﬁnancial assistance to help make it
possible for students who are admitted to the College to attend. Currently, approximately
90% of Rhodes students receive some form of federal, state, institutional, or outside
ﬁnancial assistance, with total assistance amounting to over $100 million.
Most aid awarded by the College is offered as a combination of grant, loan and student
employment. Rhodes takes full advantage of the available federal and state ﬁnancial
assistance programs when awarding ﬁnancial aid to students. Additionally, through the
generosity of loyal alumni and other friends of the College, Rhodes students beneﬁt from a
generous competitive fellowship and scholarship program.
General Policies
• The Ofﬁce of Financial Aid will communicate with students primarily via the Rhodes-
assigned  student email address. It is the student's responsibility to communicate with
parents concerning ﬁnancial aid award information, requirements, etc. A student may
not receive aid (scholarships, fellowships and/or grants)  in excess of the total cost of
attendance at Rhodes (tuition, fees, housing, food as well as an estimated allowance
for books, transportation, and personal/living expenses). If the total amount of aid
from all sources (Rhodes federal, state, private) exceeds Rhodes’ total cost of
attendance, aid will be reduced accordingly.
• In general, information about the student's ﬁnancial aid award(s), requirements for
completing the ﬁnancial aid process, cost of attendance, etc. may be found
on LynxPartner.  The Ofﬁce of Financial Aid does not mail paper award letters or
documents to Rhodes students' home address.   Updated awards are made available
via Banner Web Self-Service in March of each year.
• The total amount of Rhodes-funded gift aid (scholarships, fellowships and/or grants)
a student is eligible to receive may not exceed Rhodes' direct cost of attendance
(tuition, fees, food and/or housing). If the total amount of Rhodes-funded gift aid
exceeds the direct cost of attendance, a portion of the Rhodes gift aid will be reduced
accordingly. 
• Rhodes scholarships, fellowships and grants are based on a normal course load (12General Information https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/52
22 of 74 7/25/23, 12:53 PM
- 18 credits under the Foundations Curriculum). Additional costs incurred by a
student taking an overload will be incurred at that student’s expense.
• Rhodes scholarships, fellowships and grants are based on a normal course load of
12 - 18 credits under the Foundations Curriculum). Additional costs incurred by a
student taking an overload will be incurred at that student’s expense.
• Rhodes scholarships, fellowships and grants are provided only to students enrolled
full-time (at least 12 credits) as of the last day of the extended drop period. Seniors
who need less than twelve (12) credits to graduate in their ﬁnal semester are NOT
exempt from this policy.
• Institutional funds will be awarded for each classiﬁcation year (i.e. ﬁrst-year,
sophomore, etc.) only once. A maximum of two semesters of assistance will be
awarded for any classiﬁcation. Exceptions to this may be made by formal approval by
the Accessibility Support Committee.
• Students, who graduate early because of overloads, summer course work, etc.,
forfeit aid for the semester(s) not enrolled. Students who accept/decline ﬁnancial aid
awards via LynxPartner are electronically signing their award and agree to the terms
of the ﬁnancial aid package as listed in the Rhodes College Catalogue, in other
Rhodes publications, and on the Rhodes website
• The following are the deﬁnitions for enrollment status for ﬁnancial aid, including
Rhodes scholarships, fellowships and grants
◦ Full time: 12 credits or greater
◦ ¾ Time: 9-11credits
◦ ½ Time: 6-8  credits
Deﬁnitions
• Cost of Attendance (COA):  This includes tuition, fees, estimated housing and food,
estimated cost of books, estimated personal/living costs and estimated transportation
costs). The term “Direct COA” only includes tuition and fees. Room and board
is included as "Direct COA" only for students who reside at or have purchased a
meal plan through Rhodes College. When calculating Rhodes scholarships or grants
based on tuition, fees, and room and board, the amount used for room is the average
amount charged by the College for a student at the multiple occupancy rate for that
dorm; the amount used for board is the current on-campus 21-meal plan rate.
• Expected Family Contribution (EFC ): The minimum amount a family is expected to
contribute for the student’s education for a given academic year. The EFC is
calculated by the FAFSA and the CSS PROFILE and assumes families will ﬁnance
education utilizing current income, past savings, and student and/or parental
borrowing.
• Demonstrated Need : The difference between the COA and the EFC.
• Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA ): A ﬁnancial aid application used
in awarding federal and state grants, scholarships, and loans and studentGeneral Information https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/52
23 of 74 7/25/23, 12:53 PM
employment.
• Institutional Supplemental Application:  May be completed in place of the CSS
PROFILE to determine Rhodes Grant funding. Only needed ﬁrst year.
• CSS PROFILE : A ﬁnancial aid application used by Rhodes to determine Rhodes
Grant funding. The CSS PROFILE is a product of The College Board.
• Satisfactory Academic Progress (SAP):  Federal and institutional requirement that
students consistently progress toward completion of a degree; includes GPA and
earned hours measured at the end of each academic year.
Financial aid Application Procedures  for Prospective Students
All prospective students who want consideration for federal, state, and  institutional
assistance, including Early Decision applicants, must complete the FAFSA to receive
federal and/or state aid. Failure to complete the FAFSA will  result in the reduction or
elimination of awarded federal  aid. The Title IV Code for Rhodes to receive FAFSA results
is 003519.
All prospective students who want consideration for institutional ﬁnancial assistance,
including Early Decision applicants, must complete the CSS PROFILE or the Institutional
Supplemental Application to receive institutional grant funding. Failure to complete one of
these applications may result in the reduction or elimination of awarded institutional aid.
The code for Rhodes to receive the CSS PROFILE results is 1730.
 Submit the CSS PROFILE ( https://cssproﬁle.collegeboard.org ) or Institutional
Supplemental Application (student portal) and/or the FAFSA ( www.fafsa.gov ) by the
following dates, according to admission plan:
• 
◦ Early Decision     - November 1
◦  Early Action        - November 15
◦ Early Decision II  - January 15
◦ Regular Decision - January 15
Notiﬁcation of ﬁnancial aid awards for admitted applicants are as follows:
• 
◦ Early Decision                  - beginning November 15
◦ Early Decision II               -  notiﬁed on a rolling basis beginning November 29
◦ Early Action applicants    - January 15
◦ Regular Decision              - March 15
Financial aid Application Procedures  for Transfer StudentsGeneral Information https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/52
24 of 74 7/25/23, 12:53 PM
A student transferring to Rhodes who is seeking ﬁnancial assistance must submit  a CSS
PROFILE ( https://cssproﬁle.collegeboard.org ) or Institutional Supplemental Application by
March 1 and a valid FAFSA ( www.fafsa.gov ) by March 1 in order to determine ﬁnancial
need for the upcoming year.
A transfer student shall be eligible for all forms of ﬁnancial aid (except Bellingrath
Fellowships, Bonner Scholarships, ACS and Day Scholars) provided:
• The student’s previous college academic record is commensurate with the
requirements for the award (a 3.50 minimum grade point average is required for a
Hon Scholarship and a 3.75 minimum grade point average is required for any
scholarships or fellowships of greater value such as Morse and Cambridge
Scholarships).
• The student would have been awarded the award had the student entered Rhodes
during the ﬁrst year in college.
NOTE: The number of semesters for which a transfer student may receive Rhodes-funded
aid is based on the classiﬁcation of the student upon enrollment. For example, if a transfer
student enrolls at Rhodes as a sophomore, that student may receive Rhodes-funded aid
for a total of six (6) semesters. A student enrolling as a junior may receive Rhodes-funded
aid for a total of four semesters, and so forth.
Financial Aid Application Procedures for Currently Enrolled/Returning Students
Currently enrolled/returning students who wish to continue eligibility for federal ﬁnancial
aid and for the Tennessee Education Lottery Scholarships (TELS) and the TN State
Grants (for Tennessee residents) must complete the FAFSA. Rhodes encourages
students to complete the Renewal FAFSA as soon as possible prior to March 1. Returning
Tennessee students who qualiﬁed for the State grant (TSAA) in previous years must
complete the FAFSA by February 1 to be considered for renewal.
The Department of Education will send FAFSA renewal notices to students in October of
each year via email. Returning students who are reapplying for ﬁnancial aid do not need to
resubmit the CSS PROFILE or the Institutional Supplemental Application.
Financial Aid Awards
If the results of the FAFSA reveal that a student has a ﬁnancial need, Rhodes generally
offers the student a ﬁnancial aid award that consists of gift aid (federal and state grants)
and self-help (loans and student employment). Rhodes funds, federal funds, state funds
and funds provided to the student through outside organizations are all considered a part
of the need-based ﬁnancial aid package and are applied to need ﬁrst, per federal
regulations. The need-based programs commonly available at Rhodes are listed below.General Information https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/52
25 of 74 7/25/23, 12:53 PM
• Institutional Grants
◦ Rhodes Grant:  Rhodes Grants are considered need-based awards. Rhodes
uses this funding to meet need and/or to offer assistance based on the overall
characteristics of students who show promise of success at Rhodes as well as
the ability and desire to take full advantage of all Rhodes has to offer. The
annual value of a student’s Rhodes Grant remains constant throughout the
student’s tenure at Rhodes. Exceptions to this are within the purview of the
Financial Aid Ofﬁce in response to extreme increases in demonstrated ﬁnancial
need documented through the completion of the Special Circumstance Request
and other supporting documents that may be required.
◦ Rhodes On-Campus Housing Grant: This need based grant is awarded to
offset direct costs associated with living in on campus housing.   A student who
chooses to live off campus may no longer be eligible to receive this grant.
However, this grant may be used to offset the cost of a meal plan up to the
amount of the initial Rhodes On Campus Housing Grant for students who have
satisﬁed their three-year residency requirements.  Students who request an
appeal to move off campus prior to completing the three-year requirement will
no longer qualify for this grant.
◦ Ministerial Grant:  As a church-related college, Rhodes will assist children of
Presbyterian Church (U.S.A.) ministers with a $1,000 ministerial grant above
any Rhodes grant or scholarship previously awarded. Dependents of PCUSA
ministers should indicate their interest in the Ministerial Grant on the Rhodes
Part I Application for Admission/Common Application Supplement.
• Federal Grants
◦ Federal Pell Grant:  The federal government provides direct assistance to
eligible students through the Federal Pell Grant Program. Eligibility for the
Federal Pell Grant is determined by the results of the FAFSA.
◦ Federal Supplemental Educational Opportunity Grant  (SEOG): Federal
Supplemental Educational Opportunity Grants are awarded by Rhodes to Pell
Grant recipients showing exceptional ﬁnancial need, and are in addition to the
Pell Grant. SEOG funds are limited and are awarded until funds are exhausted.
• Tennessee State Awards:
◦ Tennessee Student Assistance Award (TSAA):  Students who are residents
of Tennessee apply for the TSAA via the FAFSA. To be eligible, a student must
have:
▪ Graduated from a Tennessee highschool
▪ Been a continuous resident of Tennessee for the twelve-month period
preceding the start of the academic year for which the grant is made.
▪ An EFC of or below $5846  (subject to change per state funding).
◦ In addition:General Information https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/52
26 of 74 7/25/23, 12:53 PM
▪ Returning students wishing to renew the award must complete the FAFSA
before February 1  remain eligible. Further information may be obtained
from the Tennessee Student Assistance Corporation. The State of
Tennessee is the ﬁnal authority on eligibility for the program. Rhodes is not
responsible for replacing lost state grant funding.
▪ Contact: Phone: (  800) 342-1663 or (615) 741-1346, Website:
www.TN.gov/collegepays.html
◦ Tennessee Education Lottery Scholarship Program (TELS): The TELS
Program includes the HOPE Scholarship, the General Assembly Merit
Scholarship (GAMS), the ASPIRE Award and the Ned McWherter Scholarship
(all detailed below). The State of Tennessee offers scholarships of up to $7500
for Tennessee residents who attend an approved college or university in
Tennessee. TELS funding requires the submission of the FAFSA and must be
completed by state-established deadlines as indicated on the FAFSA website at
www.fafsa.gov.   Recipients of the TELS who begin enrollment in any term as a
full-time student must maintain full-time status throughout the semester to
continue receiving this award. Exceptions to this rule must be approved by the
Standards and Standing Committee prior to the student’s dropping below full-
time status. Only medical and family emergency issues are considered for
exceptions.   Recipients of the TELS must complete the FAFSA every year by
the state-established deadline as printed on the FAFSA. The State of
Tennessee is the ﬁnal authority on eligibility for the program. Rhodes is not
responsible for replacing lost state grant funding. Information on all
requirements for the TELS Program may be found at
www.TN.gov/collegepaystn.html.   
◦ HOPE Scholarship:  Awarded $4500 for years one and two; $5700 for years
three and four.   Students must maintain a minimum 2.75 GPA during the ﬁrst 48
credit hours earned and 3.0 subsequent terms until graduation.  The HOPE
scholarship is awarded for up to 5 years or until a student receives their
Bachelor's Degree, whichever comes ﬁrst.  Students who start the semester as a
full-time student must remain full time throughout the semester, or they will no
longer be eligible for the HOPE Scholarship.  Tennessee Residents eligible for
the HOPE Scholarship, who start the semester as a part time student, may be
eligible  for a prorated HOPE award if they remain enrolled at least  half-time
throughout the entire semester. Students enrolled a minimum of 6 hours over
the summer may be eligible to receive a HOPE award.
▪ Aspire Award : An additional $1500 is awarded to HOPE ScholarshipGeneral Information https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/52
27 of 74 7/25/23, 12:53 PM
recipients whose family reports an adjusted gross income of $36,000 or
less.
▪ General Assembly Merit Scholarship (GAMS) Supplement : An
additional $1000 is available to HOPE Scholarship recipients  based on
academic performance in high-school.   Students must have scored a
minimum of 29 on the ACT (or equivalent score on SAT) AND a minimum
3.75 ﬁnal GPA based on uniform grading policy. Students must be HOPE
eligible and not qualify for the Aspire Award.
▪ Ned McWherter : A $3000 competitive scholarship awarded to entering
freshman who scored a minimum of 29 on the ACT (or equivalent SAT
score) AND a minimum 3.5 ﬁnal GPA based on uniform grading policy. A
3.2 GPA must be maintained in college for renewal up to 8 consecutive
terms.  Applications available at www.TN.gov/collegpays
/student_portal.htm   
▪ TN Teaching Scholars Program and Minority Teaching Fellows
Program:  A state teaching service loan forgiveness program with an
employment obligation. Applicants must follow program guidelines or
award becomes a loan that must be repaid. This may be awarded to junior,
senior or graduate students admitted to the teacher education program.
Applicants cannot be licensed teachers or receive the scholarship while
employed or previously employed in teaching positions.   Award may be up
to $5000 per year.  Students must maintain a minimum 2.75 to retain.  
Application for both programs at www.TN.gov/collegepays
/student_portal.htm 
▪ 
◦ SEB Scholarship:   A scholarship for students who are residents of the
following counties in Tennessee: Bradley, Hamilton, Knox, Loudon, McMinn,
Meigs, Putnam, or Rhea County, Typically one SouthEast Bank
(SEB)  Scholarship is awarded biannually. Students are nominated by the
Financial Aid Ofﬁce and selection of scholarship is based on the student’s
community service/leadership record, academic achievements and ﬁnancial
need. The SEB Scholarship  has a stipend of $7,000 per year for four years and
will be renewed yearly as long as the recipient remains a full-time student at
Rhodes and maintains a 2.5 grade point average. The scholarship is funded by
SouthEast Bank  located in Knoxville, TN.
• Loans
◦ Federal Direct Student Loan Program:  These federal loans are available as
follows:
▪ $5,500 are available to ﬁrst-year undergraduate students
▪ $6,500 upon earning 30 credits for the sophomore yearGeneral Information https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/52
28 of 74 7/25/23, 12:53 PM
▪ $7,500 upon earning 63 credits and for each of the remaining years of
undergraduate study.
         Federal Direct Loans are either subsidized or unsubsidized:
◦ 
▪ Subsidized: The federal government pays the interest while the student is
enrolled in an eligible institution on at least a half-time basis.
▪ Unsubsidized: The student is responsible for interest payment while
enrolled at least half-time.
         Repayment details for both subsidized and unsubsidized loans:
◦ 
▪ Repayment begins six months after the student graduates or ceases to be
enrolled at least half-time.
▪ The standard repayment period is ten years, and the interest rate for loans
borrowed in a given year are ﬁxed by the DOE annually  for both
subsidized Federal Direct Loans and unsubsidized Federal Direct Loans.
▪ This rate may change on July 1st each year as determined by federal
appropriations.
◦ Federal Direct Unsubsidized Loan for Graduate Students:  These federal
loans are available to students pursuing a graduate degree at Rhodes. The
annual loan limit for a graduate or professional student is $20,500.  The interest
rate changes each July 1 as determined by federal appropriations. The current
interest rate can be found at  https://studentaid.gov/understand-aid/types/loans
/interest-rates 
◦ Federal Direct Parent Loan for Undergraduate Students (PLUS) program:
The parent of an undergraduate student may be eligible to borrow the cost of
education at Rhodes less any ﬁnancial assistance the student receives each
year for educational expenses.   PLUS applicants are subject to credit approval.
The interest rate changes each July 1st as determined by federal
appropriations.  The current interest rate can be found at  https://studentaid.gov
/understand-aid/types/loans/interest-rates. 
◦ Federal Direct GRAD (PLUS) Program:  A student enrolled in a graduate
program may be eligible to borrow the cost of education at Rhodes less any
ﬁnancial assistance the student receives each year for educational expenses.
 PLUS applicants are subject to credit approval. The interest rate changes each
July 1 as determined by federal appropriations.   The current interest rate can be
found at  https://studentaid.gov/understand-aid/types/loans/interest-rates. 
◦ Federal Teach Grant (Loan) Program:  The TEACH Grant Program provides
grants of up to $4,000 a year to students who are completing or plan toGeneral Information https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/52
29 of 74 7/25/23, 12:53 PM
complete course work needed to begin a career in teaching.   Offered only to
juniors, seniors or graduate students, Teach Grant recipients must sign a
TEACH Grant Agreement to teach  for a minimum of four years in a high-need
ﬁeld at an elementary, secondary or educational service agency that serves low
income families. Teaching must begin within eight years of graduating in a
speciﬁc course of study.   Recipients of the TEACH Grant who do not meet the
requirements of their service obligation, will have all TEACH Grants converted
to Direct Unsubsidized Loans . Loans must be repaid in full, with interest
charged from the date each TEACH Grant was released to the student’s
account. For more information go to: https://studentaid.ed.gov/sa/types/grants-
scholarships/teach#terms   
◦ Other Loans
▪ Student Loan of the Presbyterian Church (U.S.A.):  Up to $1,000
annually may be borrowed from the Student Loan Fund administered by
the General Mission Board on behalf of the Presbyterian Church. The
student must have been a member of the denomination continuously for at
least one year immediately preceding the date of application. Evidence of
ﬁnancial need is required. Students interested in this loan should address
all communications to:
                     Presbyterian Church (U. S. A.
                     Ofﬁce of Financial Aid for Studies
                     100 Witherspoon Street
                      Louisville, KY 40202-139
                     Telephone: (888) 728-7228
                     http://www.pcusa.org/ﬁnancialaid (http://www.pcusa.org/ﬁnancialaid)
• 
◦ 
▪ Private Loans  Rhodes students and parents often wish to borrow non-
federal educational loans, called "Private Loans" (also known as
alternative loans), to help with college expenses. Numerous lending
institutions offer private educational loans, which may be combined with
federal loans up to the cost of attendance. Rhodes maintains a historical
lenders’ list, which includes private educational loans that our students
have used over the past ﬁve (5) years. Please note that this list is notGeneral Information https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/52
30 of 74 7/25/23, 12:53 PM
inclusive, ordered by preference, or an endorsement of any speciﬁc
lender.   FastChoice | Home (fastproducts.org)
                  If you have questions, please contact:
                  Ofﬁce of Financial Aid
                  Phone: 901-843-3278 (local) 800-844-5969 (toll-free)
                  Email: ﬁnaid@rhodes.edu
Student Employment
Student employment programs at Rhodes include the Student Employment Program
@ Rhodes (SE@R) and the Rhodes Student Associate Program (RSAP). When an
offer of student employment of any type is extended by the College and accepted by
the student, this offer does not guarantee that the student will earn the full amount
awarded. The student will be paid only for the hours worked, as the award amount
represents maximum gross wages a student may earn. Earnings are paid directly to
the student; they are not credited to the student’s account in the Bursar’s Ofﬁce. To
begin work, a student employee must have submitted an I-9 and a W-4  form to the
college. These documents may be submitted to Rhodes Express with proper
identiﬁcation for processing. 
◦ Student Employment Program @ Rhodes (SE@R) has two options based on
ﬁnancial need:
▪ Federal Student Employment Program (FWS):  Through the Federal
Student Employment Program, part-time employment is offered to students
to help them meet their ﬁnancial need. A student may work for no less than
the prevailing minimum wage rate for an average of ten (10) hours per
week while enrolled as a regular student during the academic year.
▪ Rhodes Student Employment Program (CCE):  Employment on the
campus may be offered through the Rhodes Student Employment Program
to students who do not demonstrate ﬁnancial need. In these cases,
employment will be offered only after those commitments made to students
eligible for the FWS Program (described above) are honored. Students in
this category (no demonstrated need) who desire employment on campus
should contact the ﬁnancial aid ofﬁce. A student may work for no less than
the prevailing minimum wage rate for an average of ten (10) hours per
week while enrolled as a regular student during the academic year and for
as many as thirty-ﬁve (35) hours per week during the summer.
◦ Rhodes Student Associate Program (RSAP): RSAP provides enhanced
employment opportunities for a select group of highly qualiﬁed , highly
motivated Rhodes Students who collaborate with speciﬁcally chosenGeneral Information https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/52
31 of 74 7/25/23, 12:53 PM
faculty/administrator supervisors to provide valuable, meaningful service to both
the student and the college. Employment may be offered on a part-time basis
regardless of ﬁnancial need. A student may apply for RSAP beginning in the fall
of their freshman year as applications become available. A student must work
between ten (10) and ﬁfteen (15) hours per week during the academic year and
maintain a minimum 2.75 cumulative grade point average. Summer employment
is not available in this program. A student may not hold another job on campus
in conjunction with their RSA position including the Bonner and Day  fellowships.
Scholarships and Fellowships
Financial need is not a consideration in awarding scholarships and fellowships at
Rhodes, with the exception of the Bonner Scholarship. Federal regulations, however,
do require that any assistance, including scholarships and fellowships, ﬁrst apply
towards the demonstrated need when awarding need-based aid.
Rhodes’ scholarships and fellowships are awarded only to entering students at the
time of admission. Returning students not initially offered a competitive scholarship or
fellowship will not be considered for a competitive scholarship or fellowship at a later
time. Returning students who have been awarded a competitive scholarship or
fellowship will not be considered for scholarships or fellowships of greater value as
they progress through Rhodes.
 All qualiﬁed applicants are automatically considered for Rhodes' scholarships and
fellowships, unless a separate application is required and speciﬁed.
 Please note: A description of our broader Fellowship Program, which provides
opportunities for research, service, creative activities, internships and study abroad
during the academic year and over the summer can be found in the Opportunities for
Individualized Study section of this catalogue. Many of these opportunities include
stipends.
◦ Scholarships
Scholarships are awarded on the basis of a candidate’s academic record, leadership,
character, and personal achievements. Competitive scholarships may be renewed for
a maximum of three renewals provided the student meets the ﬁnancial aid
satisfactory academic progress standards, enrolled in undergraduate program and
maintains the GPA requirements of the scholarship; however, the student must
maintain full-time student status (at least 12 credits) through the extended drop
period of each semester. The total amount of Rhodes-funded scholarships,
fellowships and grants may not exceed direct charges of tuition, fees, room, and
board. Students receiving institutional aid in excess of tuition will be subject to a
reduction if they live off campus. Rhodes funds are not available to students enrolledGeneral Information https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/52
32 of 74 7/25/23, 12:53 PM
less than full-time (at least 12 credits) unless an exception is formally approved by
the Accessibility Support Committee (see Reduced Course Load).
Rhodes scholarships, fellowships, and grants may only be used for study at Rhodes
or for approved study in an afﬁliate study abroad program.
Rhodes institutional aid may be received up to (8) semesters as long as the student
meets the SAP
standards for renewal of ﬁnancial aid and, for competitive scholarships and
fellowships, maintains
the required GPA  Scholarships are awarded to entering students based on the
candidate’s academic record, leadership, character, and personal achievements
include:
◦ Morse
◦ Cambridge
◦ Ralph C. Hon
◦ Diehl
◦ Dean's
◦ Presidential
◦ Rhodes Awards
Dean’s Scholarships are awarded to outstanding entering students who exemplify
high academic standards, exemplify leadership in their community, and diversify the
cultural demography of the college.
◦ Fellowships (a description of our broader Fellowship Program can be found in
the Opportunities for Individualized Study section of the catalogue.)
• At Rhodes, we have taken traditional scholarships a step further by allowing students
to invest in themselves through professional internships, community service,
research or other requirements in exchange for ﬁnancial assistance. In addition to
funding, recipients of fellowships receive real-world experience that puts their
education into action. Competitive fellowships for incoming students are awarded to
students based on academic ability, leadership, character, personal achievement, or
special talents and provide service, research, or internship opportunities to
recipients. Most fellowships require the submission of a separate application through
the Fellowships Ofﬁce.General Information https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/52
33 of 74 7/25/23, 12:53 PM
Fellowships may be renewed for up to three times provided the student meets the
ﬁnancial aid satisfactory academic progress standards, the GPA requirements of the
fellowship, and the service, internship, research, or other requirements of the
fellowship. In addition, the student must maintain full-time student status (at least 12
credits) through the extended drop period of each semester to continue to receive
the fellowship. The total amount of Rhodes-funded scholarships, fellowships and
grants may not exceed tuition, fees, room and board. Rhodes funds are not available
to students enrolled less than full-time (at least 12 credits) unless an exception is
formally approved by Student Accessibility Services (see Student Accessibility
Services). Rhodes scholarships, fellowships, and grants may only be used for study
at Rhodes or for approved Rhodes  afﬁliate study abroad program. Rhodes
institutional aid may be received up to (8) semesters as long as the student meets
the SAP standards for renewal of ﬁnancial aid and, for competitive scholarships and
fellowships, maintains the required GPA.
◦ 
▪ Walter D. Bellingrath Fellowships:  Bellingrath Fellowships receive a
stipend equal to the full cost of tuition at Rhodes, are awarded to the
College’s most outstanding ﬁrst-year students.
▪ Fine Arts Fellowships:  Fine Arts Fellowships are made each year to
entering students who have demonstrated outstanding achievement in the
areas of art or  music. Auditions are required in music, and art requires the
submission of slides. The Fine Arts Fellowships are valued up to $12,500
per year. If a student qualiﬁes for a Fine Arts Fellowship and another
competitive scholarship or fellowship, only one scholarship or fellowship
(whichever is greater) will be awarded. Winners of these fellowships are
required to major or minor in a Fine Arts discipline while at Rhodes.
▪ Spencer Fellowships in Ancient Mediterranean Studies:  Spencer
Fellowships are awarded to ﬁrst-year students who have distinguished
themselves in the study of Latin, ancient Greek or the civilizations of
ancient Greece and Rome. Each year, up to three Spencer Fellowships
are awarded in the amount of $2,000 to $3,000 in addition  to any other
Rhodes grant or fellowship received. The fellowships are renewable for
three years provided the student meets the ﬁnancial aid satisfactory
academic progress standards, maintains a 2.75 cumulative GPA, and
participates in the Ancient Mediterranean Studies program.
▪ Jack H. Taylor Fellowship in Physics:  The Taylor Fellowship in Physics
recognizes talented high school physics students and encourages their
continued college development in physics. The Fellowship is valued up to
$15,000 per year based on the qualiﬁcations of the recipient and is in
addition to any other Rhodes grant or fellowship the student may receive.
At least one fellowship will be awarded to a ﬁrst-year student each year.General Information https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/52
34 of 74 7/25/23, 12:53 PM
▪ Bonner Scholarships:  The Bonner Scholarships are for students who
have demonstrated an exceptional record of leadership and service
participation in their communities and who wish to become effective
leaders who promote positive change in the world. The Bonner
Scholarships are awarded on a competitive basis and support ﬁfteen ﬁrst-
year students who have competitive SAT or ACT scores, a strong high
school record, and demonstrate an outstanding record of leadership,
community service and/or social justice work. To be eligible, the student’s
family must have a federal Expected Family Contribution (EFC) below
$10,500 (exceptions may be made for outstanding candidates).
Scholarships plus stipend are valued at $13,000 are in addition to any
Rhodes scholarship the student may receive during the standard academic
year. In addition to the award amount, the student’s ﬁnancial need to cover
direct costs is met with scholarship, grant, and subsidized loan.
Unsubsidized loans may be offered to assist with indirect costs or offset
calculated family contribution. Bonner Scholars are also awarded funding
for two summer service projects, access to a community fund to support
service projects, and up to $3,000 for the purpose of reducing total
educational loan indebtedness upon graduation from Rhodes. The total
amount of Rhodes-funded scholarships, including Bonner Scholarship,
Bonner Stipend, Rhodes Fellowships and Rhodes grants may not exceed
direct charges of tuition, fees, room and board. Students receiving
institutional aid in excess of tuition will be subject to a reduction if they live
off campus.
▪ Clarence Day Scholarship:  Day Scholarships are made each year to
entering students who are from Shelby County and who have
demonstrated a strong interest in the Memphis community. Students must
have a strong academic record and have intentions of staying in Memphis
after graduation. The scholarship is renewable for three years provided the
student meets the renewal criteria. The scholarship is valued at $35,000
per year and an opportunity for a one-time fellowship experience with a
stipend of $5,000. Applicants must apply and meet all deadlines to be
considered for this scholarship. In addition to the award amount, a
student’s ﬁnancial need to cover direct costs is met with scholarship, grant,
and work. Loans may be offered to assist with indirect costs or offset
calculated family contribution. The total amount of Rhodes-funded
scholarships, including Day Scholarship, Rhodes Fellowships and Rhodes
grants may not exceed direct charges of tuition, fees, room, and board.
Students receiving institutional aid in excess of tuition will be subject to a
reduction if they live off campus.
▪ Jewish Community Fellowship: Awarded through partnership with
Jewish Community Partners (JCP) of Memphis.   Jewish CommunityGeneral Information https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/52
35 of 74 7/25/23, 12:53 PM
Fellows receive a merit scholarship between $2500 and $10,000,
dependent on other combined aid, and renewable for up to 3 years.  
Jewish Community Fellows are expected to be active in Jewish life at
Rhodes and fulﬁll the following requirements:
▪ Complete an annual Fellowship Recertiﬁcation Form
▪ Make a presentation to Jewish Community Partners board
▪ Write a yearly article about Jewish life
▪ Attend monthly leadership meetings with other fellows
▪ Attend Rhodes Hillel events/programs
◦ Other Scholarships and Awards
▪ Rhodes College-Sponsored National Merit Scholarships:  Awards
sponsored by Rhodes may be offered to ﬁrst-year students who are
designated as ﬁnalists in the National Merit Scholarship competition and
who have designated Rhodes as their ﬁrst choice. Recipients may not
receive other National Merit Scholarships. These awards are valued at
$1500 beginning with the incoming class of 2020-2021. They are
renewable for three years provided the student meets the ﬁnancial aid
satisfactory academic progress standards.
▪ Chicago Scholars Program Award:  Chicago Scholar Program recipients
receive institutional aid up to a student’s ﬁnancial need to cover direct
costs with scholarship, grant, subsidized loans and work. Unsubsidized
loans may be offered to assist with indirect costs or offset calculated family
contribution. The total amount of Rhodes-funded scholarships, including
Day Scholarship, Rhodes Fellowships and Rhodes grants may not exceed
direct charges of tuition, fees, room, and board. Students receiving
institutional aid in excess of tuition will be subject to a reduction if they live
off campus.
▪ YES Prep Scholars Program Award:  YES Prep Program recipients
receive institutional aid up to a student’s ﬁnancial need to cover direct
costs with scholarship, grant, subsidized loans and work. Unsubsidized
loans may be offered to assist with indirect costs or offset calculated family
contribution. The total amount of Rhodes-funded scholarships, including
Day Scholarship, Rhodes Fellowships and Rhodes grants may not exceed
direct charges of tuition, fees, room, and board. Students receiving
institutional aid in excess of tuition will be subject to a reduction if they live
off campus.
▪ The Presbyterian Partnership:  Because Rhodes shares an important
relationship with the Presbyterian Church (U.S.A.), a special scholarship
program, called the Presbyterian Partnership, has been established.
Through this program Rhodes seeks to strengthen its ties with the Church
and to help students obtain the distinctive and high quality educationGeneral Information https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/52
36 of 74 7/25/23, 12:53 PM
available at Rhodes. In the program, the Session of a Presbyterian church
may nominate a student to receive a Partnership grant of $1,000, $2,000
or $4,000. The church contributes one-half of the Partnership grant to
Rhodes, and the College supplies the other half and applies the total to the
student’s account. Any institutional grant or scholarship previously
awarded the recipient by Rhodes will be used to match the Church’s
portion of the scholarship (i.e. no additional grant or scholarship aid will be
awarded). Eligibility requirements for a Partnership Scholarship are:
▪ Interested students should contact their pastor or Clerk of Session to
see if their church is willing to enter into a Partnership agreement with
Rhodes. If the church wishes to participate, the church should write a
letter to the Rhodes College Ofﬁce of Financial Aid  specifying the
annual amount of the Presbyterian Partnership it wishes to partner
with Rhodes.
▪ The recipient must meet all requirements for admission to Rhodes as
a full-time student and maintain satisfactory academic progress at all
times
▪ Only ﬁrst-year students and transfer students are eligible for an initial
Partnership Scholarship.
▪ The student must be nominated by the Session of a local
Presbyterian Church (U.S.A).
▪ For further information about the Presbyterian Partnership Program,
contact the Financial Aid Ofﬁce.
▪ National Presbyterian College Scholarships:  Rhodes participates in the
National Presbyterian College Scholarship Program. Rhodes may co-
sponsor one award each year to an entering ﬁrst-year student. This award,
based on ﬁnancial need and ranging in value from $700 to $1,400, is
renewable for up to three additional years provided the student meets the
ﬁnancial aid satisfactory academic progress standards. The National
Presbyterian College Scholarship Selection Committee will determine the
winner from those applicants who indicate on the application that Rhodes
is their ﬁrst choice among the participating Presbyterian Colleges.
Application forms may be obtained from and must be returned by January
31 to:
                    National Presbyterian College Scholarships
                    Presbyterian Church (U.S.A.) Financial Aid for Studies
                    100 Witherspoon Street Mezzanine
                    Louisville, KY 40202-1396General Information https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/52
37 of 74 7/25/23, 12:53 PM
                     http://www.pcusa.org/ﬁnancialaid
◦ 
▪ American Field Service Returnee Scholarships:  Rhodes will provide up
to ﬁve (5) AFS Returnee Scholarships valued at $500 per year and
renewable for up to three additional years provided the student meets the
ﬁnancial aid satisfactory academic progress standards. The scholarships
are available on a competitive basis to any AFS returnee who is offered
admission to the College.
▪ HOBY Scholarships:  These scholarships are available on a competitive
basis to any participant in a HOBY seminar who is offered admission to the
College. The scholarship is valued at $500 per year and is renewable for
three years provided the student meets the ﬁnancial aid satisfactory
academic progress standards. A maximum of ﬁve (5) HOBY Scholarships
will be awarded each year.
▪ Youth for Understanding Scholarships:  Rhodes will provide up to ﬁve
(5) YFU Scholarships per year valued at $500 and renewable for three
additional years provided the student meets the ﬁnancial aid satisfactory
academic progress standards. The scholarships are available on a
competitive basis to any YFU participant who is offered admission to the
College.
▪ Army ROTC Scholarships:  Rhodes students may compete for Army
ROTC scholarships providing college tuition and educational fees.
Awardees also receive a book allowance of $600 per semester and a
stipend varying from $350 - $500 per month from the Army (estimated).
Students awarded an Army ROTC scholarship may receive a Rhodes
Grant up to but not to exceed the equivalent of the cost of on-campus
room and board based upon the 21 meal, standard multiple occupancy
room rate. Rhodes College scholarship, fellowship or grant equal to or
greater than the indicated grant amount will be adjusted to the equivalent
of the cost of on-campus room and board based upon the 21 meal,
standard multiple occupancy room rate. Grants are renewable for three
years as long as the student retains his/her ROTC Scholarship and meets
the satisfactory academic progress standards for ﬁnancial aid. Information
about Army ROTC Scholarships may be obtained by writing to or calling:
                  Army ROTC
                  The University of Memphis
                  Memphis, TN 38152
                  (901)678-2933General Information https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/52
38 of 74 7/25/23, 12:53 PM
◦ 
▪ Air Force ROTC Scholarships:  Through an agreement between Rhodes
and the United States Air Force, Rhodes students may participate fully in
the AFROTC program based at the University of Memphis and can
compete for AFROTC scholarships. Incoming freshman can compete for
four, and in certain cases, ﬁve-year scholarships by applying for an
AFROTC College Scholarship (CSP) online at www.afrotc.com. Applicants
must apply no later than December 1 of the year prior to entering college
as a ﬁrst-year student.  Scholarships awarded through the CSP program
include: Applicants must apply no later than December 1 of the year prior
to entering college as a ﬁrst-year student. Scholarships awarded through
the CSP program include:
▪ 
▪ Type 1 - full-tuition and fees
▪ Type 2 up to $15,000 per year towards tuition and fees
▪ Type 7 - up to $9,000 per year towards tuition and fees
                   Students not selected for a CSP scholarship, if eligible, can compete for
scholarship through the In College Scholarship Program (ICSP) once they                  
   are enrolled at Rhodes and in AFROTC. These scholarships include:
◦ 
▪ 
▪ 
▪ Type 2 - $15,000 per year towards tuition and fees
▪ Type 3 - $9,000 towards tuition and fees
▪ Type 6 - $3,000 towards tuition and fees
                  All AFROTC scholarship programs include a $900 per year book
allowance. Students who receive the Type 2 scholarships through CSP or ISCP         
             are eligible to  compete for  an upgrade to 80 percent of tuition and fees.
                 AFROTC and Rhodes Grant
◦ 
▪ 
▪ 
▪ Type 1 scholarship recipients are also eligible to receive a
Rhodes grant up to but not to exceed the equivalent of the cost
of on-campus room and board based upon the 21-meal,
standard multiple-occupancy rate. In addition, if a Type I
recipient chooses to live at home or with relatives, the amount ofGeneral Information https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/52
39 of 74 7/25/23, 12:53 PM
the Rhodes grant plus the Air Force Type I scholarship cannot
be more than Rhodes’ cost of attendance for a commuter
student living with relatives.
▪ Type 2 scholarship recipients may receive a Rhodes grant
equivalent to ﬁfty percent (50%) of the on-campus cost of room
and board based upon the 21 meal, standard multiple
occupancy rate.
▪ The Rhodes grant will be awarded unless the student has
already received a Rhodes College scholarship, fellowship or
grant equal to or greater than the indicated grant amount.
Rhodes College scholarship, fellowship or grant equal to or
greater than the indicated grant amount will be adjusted to the
equivalent of the cost of on-campus room and board based upon
the 21 meal, standard multiple occupancy room rate. Rhodes
grants are renewable for up to three years as long as the
student retains his/her ROTC Scholarship and meets the
satisfactory academic progress standards for ﬁnancial aid.
◦ 
▪ Navy ROTC Scholarships:  Rhodes students may compete for Navy
ROTC scholarships providing college tuition and educational fees.
Students awarded a Navy ROTC scholarship may receive a Rhodes Grant
up to but not to exceed the equivalent cost of on-campus room and board
based upon the 21 meal, standard multiple occupancy room rate. Rhodes
College scholarship, fellowship or grant equal to or greater than the
indicated grant amount will be adjusted to the equivalent of the cost of on-
campus room and board based upon the 21 meal, standard multiple
occupancy room rate. Grants are renewable for three years as long as the
student retains his/her ROTC Scholarship and meets the satisfactory
academic progress standards for ﬁnancial aid. Information about Navy
ROTC Scholarships may be obtained by contacting:
                   Navy ROTC
                   The University of Memphis
                   120 Hayden Hall
                   Memphis, TN 38152
                   (901) 678-4353
                    nrotc@memphis.eduGeneral Information https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/52
40 of 74 7/25/23, 12:53 PM
◦ 
▪ Veteran Beneﬁts:
▪ Chapter 35 Beneﬁts offer VA Survivors and Dependents Education
assistance to spouses or children of veterans who have been found
eligible by the Regional Processing Ofﬁce (RPO) due to serviceman
death, permanent disability, MIA, capture or detention in the line of
duty.
▪ Chapter 33 Beneﬁts offer education assistance for those who served
on active duty, received the Purple Heart, or were honorably
discharged on or after September 11, 2011. This beneﬁt extends to
their dependents.   Qualifying veterans or designated dependents
may be eligible to receive up to the full cost of pubic, in-state tuition
and fees, books (up to approximately 23,600) and housing allowance.
                      To apply for either beneﬁt:
◦ 
▪ 
▪ Log in to your www.vets.gov  account at www.va.gov/education/how-
to-apply/
▪ Go to the Forms drop down box
▪ Select and Apply for “VA Form 22-5490, Dependents Application for
VA Education Beneﬁts
▪ Post-9/11 Yellow Ribbon Beneﬁts:   For the 2019-20 academic year,
eligible students may receive up to $5000 in Yellow Ribbon. Rhodes
contribution is considered matching if the student has already been
awarded institutional scholarships and/or grants of the same or greater
amount. Yellow Ribbon beneﬁts are capped at the Cost of Attendance
minus VA Beneﬁts minus any other aid received excluding Federal student
loans.
▪ Awards will continue as long as the student has remaining VA/Yellow
Ribbon eligibility, is enrolled full-time and in good standing, and
maintains satisfactory academic progress. Participating students that
withdraw from the College and are later readmitted will only be able to
participate if space is available. Should a student lose his/her Yellow
Ribbon Program eligibility and subsequently regain it, he/she must
reapply for program participation.
▪ To apply, students must submit their VA Certiﬁcate of Eligibility, which
shows they are entitled to receive 100% of the beneﬁts payable under
the Post-9/11 GI Bill®   program to the Ofﬁce of Financial Aid:
                               Fax:  901-843-3435General Information https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/52
41 of 74 7/25/23, 12:53 PM
                               Email: Waltona@rhodes.edu
                              Deliver in person to Rhodes Express, Arlisha Walton
                              Mail: Rhodes College
                            Attn: Financial Aid
                            2000 North Parkway
                             Memphis, TN 38112
In compliance with PL:115:407 Section 103:  Any covered individual will be able to
attend or participate in the course of education during the period beginning on the
date on which the individual provides to the educational institution a certiﬁcate of
eligibility for entitlement to educational assistance under chapter 31 or 33 (a
“certiﬁcate of eligibility” can also include a “Statement of Beneﬁts” obtained from the
Department of Veterans Affairs’ (VA) website – eBeneﬁts, or a VAF 28-1905 form for
chapter 31 authorization purposes) and ending on the earlier of the following dates:
1.  The date on which payment from VA is made to the institution.
2.  90 days after the date the institution certiﬁed tuition and fees following the receipt
of the certiﬁcate of eligibility.
Rhodes College will not impose any penalty, including the assessment of late fees,
the denial of access to classes, libraries, or other institutional facilities, or the
requirement that a covered individual borrow additional funds, on any covered
individual because of the individual’s inability to meet his or her ﬁnancial obligations
to the institution due to the delayed disbursement funding from VA under chapter 31
or 33.
Trademark Information
‘‘GI Bill® is a registered trademark of the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs
(VA)”.
More information about education beneﬁts offered by VA is available at the ofﬁcial
U.S. government website at  http://www.beneﬁts.va.gov/gibill ."
◦ Outside Scholarships : Scholarships from other organizations may also be
available to students who attend Rhodes. Some of these awards are
administered through high schools. However, in most cases, the student applies
directly to a club or association. Interested students should work with their high
school counselors to learn of those scholarships available in their area. PleaseGeneral Information https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/52
42 of 74 7/25/23, 12:53 PM
note that outside scholarships become part of the ﬁnancial aid package and
assist in meeting demonstrated ﬁnancial need. Students must notify the Rhodes
Financial Aid Ofﬁce of any outside funding that they receive. A student may not
receive more aid than the published cost of attendance at Rhodes. Federal,
state or institutional aid may be reduced in instances when aid from all
resources exceeds cost of attendance.
Tuition Exchange and Remission Programs
◦ Rhodes Tuition Remission Program for full-time employees: After one year
of service, full-time employees of Rhodes may be eligible for up to 2 tuition free
courses each semester at Rhodes. The employee is responsible for registration
and application fees, and must meet Rhodes’ admission criteria as established
by the Committee on Admission.The spouse and children of full-time employees
are also eligible for tuition remission. Eligible students must meet Rhodes’
admission requirements to be considered. The full time employee must apply for
this beneﬁt through Human Resources. Tuition remission is limited 8 semesters
(including summer)  for a spouse and each natural child. The total amount of
Rhodes merit scholarships, including Rhodes Tuition Remission and Rhodes
Fellowships and may not exceed direct charges of tuition, fees, room, and
board.  Rhodes Grants and Rhodes Legacy Scholarships cannot be combined
with this beneﬁt unless the student has unmet ﬁnancial need after all other aid
has been applied. Students receiving institutional aid in excess of tuition will be
subject to a reduction if they live off campus. Tuition will be remitted on behalf of
spouse and/or natural child subject to the following qualiﬁcations:
▪ After 1 year of employment    - one-third tuition will be remitted
▪ After 2 years of employment - two-thirds tuition will be remitted
▪ After 3 years of employment - full tuition will be remitted
◦ Rhodes Tuition Remission Program for part-time employees:  After one year
of service, part-time employees who work at least 20 hours or more per week
are eligible for fractional remission on a pro-rata basis, under the same
provisions as full-time employees. The spouse and children of part-time
employees are not eligible for tuition remission. Employees who work fewer
than 20 hours per week are not eligible for tuition remission.
◦ Associated Colleges of the South (ACS): Children of employees of ACS
participating institutions are eligible to be considered for the ACS Tuition
Exchange.
▪ Rhodes’ agreement with ACS indicates that for any given academic year,
ACS “imports” (students attending Rhodes as an ACS Tuition Exchange
student) will not exceed “exports” (children of Rhodes employees attending
another ACS college under the agreement) by more than three students.
▪ Applicants must submit the FAFSA and the CSS PROFILE orGeneral Information https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/52
43 of 74 7/25/23, 12:53 PM
Supplemental Financial Aid Questions to be considered for the ACS
Scholarship.
▪ Only ﬁrst-time, ﬁrst year students will be considered for the ACS
Scholarship.
▪ Each ACS Tuition Exchange recipient pays a participation fee of $2,000
per academic year.
▪ The ACS Tuition Exchange beneﬁt is equivalent to full tuition at Rhodes
and is renewable for three years provided the student meets the ﬁnancial
aid satisfactory academic progress standards and meets the eligibility
requirements indicated above.
▪ ACS Tuition Exchange beneﬁts may be only used for one of the following
Rhodes study abroad programs: European Studies,   Afﬁliated Programs or
Rhodes Exchange. Interested students must specify that admission is
being sought under the ACS Tuition Exchange program, apply for all state
and/or federal aid for which he or she may be eligible, and have submitted
an ACS Tuition Exchange certiﬁcation form completed by the appropriate
ofﬁcial at their home institution certifying their eligibility for the exchange.
▪ Eligible students must meet Rhodes’ admission requirements.
▪ The total amount of Rhodes-funded scholarships, Rhodes Fellowships,
Rhodes grants and exchange programs may not exceed tuition and fees.
▪ Recipients may be required to live in a residence hall at the College’s
discretion.
▪ Preference may be given to students who apply Early Decision to Rhodes.  
◦ Tuition Exchange:  Students who are dependent children of eligible employees
can participate in the Tuition Exchange program of over 600 schools nationally.
▪ The Tuition Exchange scholarships are competitive awards and are not
guaranteed by Rhodes or other participating institutions.
◦ 
▪ Applicants must submit the FAFSA and CSS PROFILE or Supplemental
Financial Aid Questions to be considered for the award.
▪ Only ﬁrst-time, ﬁrst year students will be considered for the TE program.
▪ Although The Tuition Exchange promotes and maintains the exchange,
scholarships are granted by member institutions, not by The Tuition
Exchange.  
▪ The 2023-24  beneﬁt is $41,000.  
▪ Tuition Exchange cannot be combined with Rhodes Institutional
Scholarships.
▪ Students with exceptional unmet need may be considered for a Rhodes
Grant.
▪ Preference may be given to students who apply Early Decision to Rhodes.
▪ Recipients may be required to live in a residence hall at the College’sGeneral Information https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/52
44 of 74 7/25/23, 12:53 PM
discretion.
▪ For more information on this program visit tuitionexchange.org
Reduced Course Load
Students who, due to the impact of a disability, are unable to meet the minimum
credit hour per semester standard set by the college (12 hours for undergraduate
students), may request an accommodation for a reduced course load with full-time
status through Student Accessibility Services.  Students approved for this
accommodation will be entitled to the same rights and privileges as other full-time
students, including consideration for ﬁnancial aid. The amount of aid awarded,
however, will be reduced to the proportionate amount that corresponds with the
student’s course load. For example, a minimum of twelve (12) credits per semester is
required to receive Rhodes-funded student aid as a full-time student. If a student has
received approval from Student Accessibility Services to be considered a full-time
student for a course load of eight (8) credits in a given semester, the Rhodes-funded
aid will be reduced to 2/3 of the amount it would have been if the student were taking
twelve (12) or more credits. A course load of six (6) credits will always be considered
to be half-time. No Rhodes-funded aid will be available to any student who is enrolled
less than half- time. Additionally, approved students  will be eligible to receive
Rhodes- funded aid for a maximum of twelve (12) semesters or 150% of the
standard time required for completion of a Bachelor’s degree; the total Rhodes-
funded aid will be limited to the amount the student would have received for eight (8)
semesters taking standard course loads.
Renewal of Financial Aid
Satisfactory Academic Progress (SAP) Requirements:  Satisfactory Academic
Progress (SAP) must be maintained for renewal of federal (TITLE IV), state, and
institutional aid, including Federal Direct PLUS (Parent Loan for Undergraduate
Students). Per federal guidelines, all students must obtain:
◦ a total cumulative grade point average of at least *1.50 and has completed 67%
of their classes by the end of their freshman year
◦ a total cumulative grade point average of at least *2.00 and has completed 67%
of their classes by the end of their sophomore year
*Certain  scholarships and fellowships require a higher GPA for renewal. For
individual requirements, see below under Scholarships and Fellowships.  
Students must also be aware of their pace toward graduation. The following schedule
outlines the pace needed to graduate in  eight  (8) semesters:
◦ student has earned at least 28 credits of course work by the beginning of his/herGeneral Information https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/52
45 of 74 7/25/23, 12:53 PM
third semester of study at Rhodes
◦ student has earned at least 60 credits of course work by the beginning of his/her
ﬁfth semester of study at Rhodes
◦ student has earned at least 92 credits of course work by the beginning of his/her
seventh semester of study at Rhodes
NOTE: These standards apply to satisfactory academic progress for ﬁnancial aid
only and do not establish class standing. If changes to the policy above occur prior to
the next publication of the Catalogue, the online version of the Catalogue will be
updated while awaiting the next publication date for the bound Catalogue.
Additional Requirements:  In addition to SAP requirements,  students must meet the
following requirement  to renew  federal (Title IV), state, and institutional aid, including
Federal PLUS:
◦ Students must be enrolled at least half-time (6 credits) in order to be eligible for
any Title IV (except Pell Grant) or state assistance. Rhodes Grants require full-
time enrollment (at least 12 credits).
Duration of Financial Aid: If students meet the above requirements, the duration of
their aid will be renewed as follows:
◦ Federal and State aid: the maximum time frame in which a student can
complete a degree is six (6) years, and the minimum number of credits to be
completed at  the end of   any one of   the six years is one sixth of the total
number of credits required for a degree (see Graduation  Requirements).
◦ Rhodes-funded aid: the maximum time frame is four (4) years or eight (8)
semesters.
◦ Tennessee Lottery Scholarships:  the maximum time frame for receipt of these
funds is eight (8) semesters
Review of Financial Aid:  Grades and cumulative earned credits are reviewed at the
end of each academic year for all students, unless stated otherwise by the Director of
Financial Aid. Enrollment status is based on the recorded enrollment at the end of
the “extended drop period” each term.
Variance to Reinstate Financial Aid:  Should a student become  ineligible to receive
ﬁnancial aid due to not meeting the above minimum standards, the student may
appeal for a variance from the satisfactory academic progress requirements for one
term. The appeal should be submitted to the Director of Financial Aid in writing by
email or by letter. If the variance request is approved, the student’s aid will be
reinstated based on the conditions and length of the approval as stated by the
Director of Financial Aid. This decision is communicated via Rhodes email to theGeneral Information https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/52
46 of 74 7/25/23, 12:53 PM
student.
Deﬁnitions and regulations concerning full-time student status, course schedule
changes, unauthorized withdrawal from class, and removal of conditional grades are
stated in other sections of the College Catalogue.
9th Semester Awards (Scholarship/Grant)
Rhodes provides eligible students with institutional merit scholarship and grants for
up to eight semesters or the completion of their Rhodes degree, whichever comes
ﬁrst.  Students wishing to continue their education for a 9th semester may apply for
an exception to this policy by submitting a letter to the Director of Financial Aid
outlining a proposal for continuing their education at Rhodes.   While institutional
priority will be to fund students seeking their primary undergraduate degree.   Rhodes
may, depending on available resources and demonstrated need, provide institutional
funding proportional of previous semesters awards not to exceed 50% tuition for the
enrolled semester. Students seeking grant funding for the 9th semester must
complete the Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) in the senior year. 
Students must provide parental income when completing the FAFSA as an
undergraduate student.
Students approved for a 9th semester award may enroll less than full-time for the 9th
semester of aid; in such case they will receive a prorated disbursement of the 9th
semester award.  Rhodes will not provide institutional funding to replace  state or
federal assistance that has been exhausted by prior enrollment. 
The awarding of the exception applies to 9th semester and does not extend to
semesters beyond that period. Students in their 9th semester may only receive
federal PELL Grant, State Grants and/or SEOG for classes required to complete their
major. Regardless of enrollment Pell Grant will adjusted to either Three quarter, Half
or Less Than Half-time to match the hours required for the major. SEOG will be
cancelled if hours needed is less than 12 hours. Students may request an award by
completing the form attached to this link. https://stuinfo.rhodes.edu/register
/ninthsemesteraid  
Scholarships
◦ Morse Scholarships  may be renewed for three years as long as the student
maintains a grade point average of 2.75 or better and meets the minimum
satisfactory academic progress standards for renewal of ﬁnancial aid described
previously.
◦ Cambridge Scholarships  may be renewed for three years as long as the
recipient maintains a grade point average of 2.75 or better and meets the
minimum satisfactory academic progress standards for renewal of ﬁnancial aidGeneral Information https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/52
47 of 74 7/25/23, 12:53 PM
described previously.
◦ Dean’s Scholarships, Presidential Scholarships, Hon, Diehl, and Day
Scholarships  may be renewed for three years as long as the recipient
maintains a grade point average of 2.50 or better and meets the minimum
satisfactory academic progress standards for renewal of ﬁnancial aid described
previously.
◦ Rhodes Awards and Rhodes Grants  may be renewed for three years as long
as the recipient maintains a grade point average of 2.00 or better and meets the
minimum satisfactory academic progress standards for renewal of ﬁnancial aid
described previously.
Fellowships
◦ Bellingrath Fellowships  may be renewed for three years as long as the
student maintains a grade point average of 3.25 or better, meets the minimum
satisfactory academic progress standards for renewal of ﬁnancial aid described
previously, and provides ten hours per week of service to the Ofﬁce of
Admission.
◦ Fine Arts Fellowships  may be renewed for three years as long as the student
has declared, or is making satisfactory progress toward, a major or minor in one
of the ﬁne arts. The student must also maintain a grade point average of 2.75 or
better and meet the minimum satisfactory academic progress standards for
renewal of ﬁnancial aid previously described.
◦ Spencer Fellowships in Ancient Mediterranean Studies (formerly Greek
and Roman Studies)  may be renewed for three years as long as the recipient
maintains a grade point average of 2.75 or better, meets the minimum
satisfactory academic progress standards for renewal of ﬁnancial aid described
previously, and has declared, or is making satisfactory progress toward, a major
or minor in Greek and Roman Studies.
◦ Taylor Fellowships  may be renewed for three years as long as the student
maintains    a grade point average of 3.00 or better, meets the minimum
satisfactory academic progress standards for ﬁnancial aid as described
previously, is making satisfactory progress toward a major or minor in physics
(as determined by the Physics Department), and provides ﬁve hours per week
of service to the Physics Department.
◦ Bonner Scholarships  may be renewed for three years as long as the recipient
meets   the minimum satisfactory academic progress standards for renewal of
ﬁnancial aid described previously, maintains a   2.50 grade point average, is
involved in  community service and leadership programs for an average of ten
hours per week, completes two summers of full-time community service for a
total of 280 hours over   at least a seven-week period, participates in the
College’s Leadership Program, and participates in the Bonner Scholars serviceGeneral Information https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/52
48 of 74 7/25/23, 12:53 PM
trip at the end of the student’s ﬁrst year  at Rhodes.
Revision of Financial Aid Awards
Financial aid is dynamic and may change as new information becomes available to
the Rhodes Financial Aid Ofﬁce. Any ﬁnancial aid package is subject to revision
(even during the academic year) for any of the following reasons:
◦ In the process of verifying the information the student/parent reported on the
need analysis form(s) (FAFSA and/or CSS PROFILE), an error is discovered
which, when corrected, changes the student’s eligibility.
◦ A change in regulations governing federal or state programs occurs and
requires an adjustment to be made.
◦ Funding levels in federal or state programs are reduced.
◦ The student receives additional ﬁnancial assistance, including, but not limited to,
outside scholarships, from a source not listed on the most recent award
notiﬁcation or on BannerWeb.
◦ The student fails to meet satisfactory academic progress standards for renewal
of ﬁnancial aid.
◦ The Financial Aid Ofﬁce discovers any error, clerical or other, on an award.
◦ The student fails to complete required ﬁnancial aid applications for need-based
federal, state and institutional aid, including any documents required for
veriﬁcation of FAFSA information.
Please note that any aid reduced based on the above will not be replaced by
Rhodes- funded grant.
Financial Aid for Study Abroad
Rhodes students enrolled in study abroad programs administered (sponsored) by
Rhodes (European Studies, Rhodes Exchange programs and Rhodes Afﬁliated
Programs) are eligible for competitive-based, need-based ﬁnancial aid from Rhodes,
federal and /or state aid for one semester- or year-long program.     In addition to the
included program costs, students participating in a study abroad program should
budget for additional expenses such as airfare, books, supplies, incidental expenses
and ground transportation.   Meals may or may not be included depending on the
program.
All forms of ﬁnancial aid for which the student would normally qualify will be
applicable, including Rhodes grants and scholarships, Tennessee state grants
/scholarships, campus-based Title IV and other Title IV funds, as well as any outside
loans or scholarships the student might have. However, the sum of Rhodes need-
based grant and competitive-based scholarship awarded for the term of the programGeneral Information https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/52
49 of 74 7/25/23, 12:53 PM
may not exceed the tuition charge at Rhodes for one semester (or, for an academic
year for programs of that duration). Student employment income will be replaced by
additional loan, if requested, and need in excess of the cost of attending Rhodes will
be met by loan or by the student’s family.
Rhodes students receiving ﬁnancial assistance from the College who choose to
participate in one of Rhodes’ exchange programs are considered to be Rhodes
students. The ﬁnancial aid awarded to the student to meet the costs of the exchange
program are considered expended for that term. In other words, a student who elects
to participate in an exchange program is considered to have used one of the 8 total
semesters of institutional eligibility of aid.
Students will not be eligible for either Rhodes need-based ﬁnancial aid or for Rhodes
competitive scholarship/fellowship aid for more than one study abroad program
during their time at Rhodes.
The above policies apply to study abroad programs that occur during the fall and
spring semesters of the academic year. Summer study abroad programs are
excluded, as no Rhodes need-based aid or competitive scholarships/fellowships are
available for summer study abroad.
Rhodes students enrolled in study abroad programs administered (sponsored) by
Rhodes (European Studies, Rhodes exchange and Rhodes Afﬁliate Partner
programs) are eligible for merit based and need-based ﬁnancial aid from Rhodes.
These funds are only available for one program during a student’s time of study at
Rhodes. Students in Study Abroad Programs may only receive federal PELL Grant,
SEOG and/or State funding for classes required to complete their major. Regardless
of enrollment Pell Grant will adjusted to either Three quarter, Half or Less Than Half-
time to match the hours required for the major. SEOG will be cancelled if hours
needed is less than 12 hours.
Post-Baccalaureate Aid
◦ Graduate Accounting Grant
Students admitted to the Masters of Science in Accounting Program are
automatically considered for a departmental scholarship with no additional forms
required to be ﬁled. Departmental scholarships for students in the M.S. in Accounting
Program are merit based; ﬁnancial need is not a consideration. Selection for a
scholarship is based upon the candidate’s academic record, personal achievements,
and promise of success in accounting.   Rhodes does permit traditional students that
complete their undergraduate degree in less than eight consecutive semesters to
apply their undergraduate institutional awards toward the Masters in Accounting
Program up to a total of 8 terms.   Students who did not use a semester of aid whileGeneral Information https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/52
50 of 74 7/25/23, 12:53 PM
pursuing a non-Rhodes or non- exchange study abroad program are not included in
this provision.   Students may not receive a departmental scholarship while eligible to
receive a remaining portion of undergraduate institutional scholarships and/or grants.
◦ Teacher Education Certiﬁcation Scholarship
• Students enrolled in the Post Baccalaureate Teacher Education Program may apply
for a need based award proportional to institutional aid/tuition received as an
undergraduate up to the maximum of the ED Licensure Program tuition charge of
$7500.   Students must have completed a FAFSA in their last year as an
undergraduate student attending Rhodes to be considered.   Non-Citizens are exempt
from completing the FAFSA however the school may require a CSS PROFILE on ﬁle
to determine need.
Students whose proportional aid exceeds 100% may apply for a Rhodes Campus
Housing Grant to reside on campus.
◦ Noyce STEM Teach Scholarship
The Noyce Program at Rhodes College will offer 18 STEM students scholarships of
$37,500 to be paid out in their Junior and Senior years as well as their student
teaching semester ($15,000 Junior year; $15,000 Senior year; $7500 for 9th
semester student teaching) from 2019-2024.   The Noyce Professional Scholarship is
a forgivable loan, if complete terms are not met the scholarship converts to an
interest bearing loan from the date of disbursement.    Noyce Scholars must teach for
2 years per year of funding received: which means in accepting the scholarship they
are agreeing to teaching in a high needs school for 5 years within a total of 8 years
after completing the program. 
Noyce Scholars must also complete an exit interview and participate in speciﬁed
education events and activities and other requirements outlined in the promissory
note.
Alternative Financing
For families who prefer to pay college costs in interest-free monthly installments,
Rhodes suggests Tuition Management Systems, 171 Service Avenue, Warick, RI
02886 or by phone at (800)722-4867 or online at
www.afford.com/rhodes.  Arrangements must be made with this agency prior to the
due date of the ﬁrst tuition payment. The Bursar’s Ofﬁce is the primary on-campus
contact for this program. There are a number of alternative (private) loan programs
available for interested students and their families. Please refer to the ﬁnancial aid
website at www.rhodes.edu/ﬁnaid for more information.General Information https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/52
51 of 74 7/25/23, 12:53 PM
Special Circumstances and Appeals
If a family’s ﬁnancial circumstances change during enrollment at Rhodes, a written
appeal may be made to the Director of Financial Aid. A letter of appeal should
explain new signiﬁcant family circumstances, outline any ﬁnancial changes the family
has experienced, and request a speciﬁc amount of assistance. The family may be
required to submit a new CSS Proﬁle and/or a new FAFSA. The form to complete for
an appeal based on special circumstances can be found at www.rhodes.edu/forms
Withdrawal from Rhodes and Return of Funds
◦ Return of Federal Title IV Student Aid : When a student who has Federal Title
IV student aid withdraws from the College or does not return from an approved
leave of absence, within the same academic term, the unearned portion of
those funds must  be returned to the federal student aid programs. Federal Title
IV funds that may have to be returned include:
▪ Unsubsidized Federal Direct Loans
▪ Subsidized Federal Direct Loans
▪ Federal Parent Loan for Undergraduate Students (PLUS)
▪ Federal Pell Grants
▪ Federal Supplemental Educational Opportunity Grants (SEOG).
Federal regulations require funds be returned to federal programs in the order listed
above.
The unearned portion of Federal Title IV funds is determined by dividing the number
of days in the term that have passed as of the date of withdrawal (last date of class
attendance) by the total number of days in the term. If the withdrawal occurs after
60% of the term has elapsed, no return of Title IV funds is required. The Bursar’s
Ofﬁce calculates the Return of Title IV funds amount and informs the Financial Aid
Ofﬁce and the student of the results of the calculation.
• Return of State and Institutional Student Aid : When a student who has state
and/or institutional student aid withdraws from the College or does not return from an
approved leave of absence, the College returns the unearned portion of those funds
to the state and/or the College in accordance with the withdrawal policy outlined in
the “Expense” Section of this catalogue.
• Student Financial Responsibility:  Students and parents should be aware that the
requirement to return Federal Title IV assistance and the policy to return state and
institutional aid might result in a balance due to Rhodes College; the student and/or
student’s family is responsible for paying any balance resulting from the return of
Title IV aid and state and institutional funds.General Information https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/52
52 of 74 7/25/23, 12:53 PM
Printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/general-information/ﬁnancial-aid
Student Life
Student Organizations
Rhodes is home to more than 100 student organizations that fall into a wide range of
categories:
• Academic and Honorary
• Advocacy
• Club Sports and Recreation
• Cultural
• Governing
• Fraternity & Sorority Life
• Interfaith
• Media and Performance
• Service
• Special Interest
You can see a full listing of active organizations on Presence  and search them by any of
the categories listed above.
Student Government
The main purpose of the Rhodes Student Government is to provide an organization to
represent the needs and concerns of the Rhodes student body to the faculty and
administration. The Student Government is the primary vehicle for student participation in
the governance process of Rhodes. The members of Student Government seek to keep
the group effectively involved in many areas of campus life. All meetings are open to the
entire campus, and students are strongly encouraged to attend.
The Student Government oversees the allocation of the Student Activity Fund; nominates
students for appointment to serve on faculty and administrative committees; directs the
Student Government Committees; and generally entertains any matters of student interest
or concern at meetings and campus-wide forums. Elections are held in the Spring for all
positions except the First-Year Representatives, which are elected in the Fall.
Honor Societies
The Rhodes College Chapter of Phi Beta Kappa, Gamma Chapter of Tennessee, was
established at the College in 1949. For over two hundred years, election to Phi BetaGeneral Information https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/52
53 of 74 7/25/23, 12:53 PM
Kappa has been a recognition of exceptional academic achievement in the liberal arts and
sciences. Rhodes students are elected to Phi Beta Kappa by the members of the chapter
chieﬂy on the basis of outstanding academic achievement in the study of liberal subjects.
Omicron Delta Kappa, Phi Circle, was established at the College in 1927. The purpose of
this national organization is to recognize leadership in college activities and to undertake
various activities for the good of the College. Student members are chosen from the junior
and senior classes, and not more than three per cent of the student body may be elected
to membership. Members must have distinguished themselves in such activities as
scholarship, athletics, and publications.
Sigma Tau Delta, national English honor society, was established at Rhodes in 1984. The
purpose of this society is to promote the study of literature in English and to recognize
outstanding achievement in this area.
Mortar Board, a national honor society for seniors, was established at Rhodes April 17,
1964, for the purpose of recognizing excellence in scholarship, leadership, and service.
The Pi Kappa Lambda honorary academic music fraternity was established in the spring
of 1949. It recognizes outstanding achievement in music and may elect not over twenty
per cent of those members of the senior class majoring in music.
Eta Sigma Phi, honorary society for students of classical language, was established at
Rhodes in 1952. The purpose of this society is to promote interest in all aspects of ancient
Greek and Roman culture. Those who have at least a B average in advanced courses in
either Greek or Latin are eligible for membership.
The Rhodes chapter of Sigma Pi Sigma, the national physics honor society, was
established May 27, 1963. The chapter receives into membership physics students and a
limited number from closely related ﬁelds when such students attain high standards of
scholarship, professional merit, and academic distinction.
Omicron Delta Epsilon is one of the world's largest academic honor societies. The
objectives of Omicron Delta Epsilon are recognition of scholastic attainment and the
honoring of outstanding achievements in economics; the establishment of closer ties
between students and faculty in economics within colleges and universities, and among
colleges and universities; the publication of its ofﬁcial journal, The American Economist,
and sponsoring of panels at professional meetings as well as the Irving Fisher and Frank
W. Taussig competitions. The minimum requirements for admission for undergraduates
are completion of 12 semester hours economics courses and attainment of at least a 3.50
in economics courses and an overall 3.50 in all classes. Students do not have to be
economics majors, but must have a genuine interest in economics in addition to meeting
the above requirements.General Information https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/52
54 of 74 7/25/23, 12:53 PM
Theta Chapter of Sigma Iota Rho, a national honor society in International Studies, is a
charter chapter that was founded at Rhodes in 1986. The purpose of Sigma Iota Rho is to
recognize academic excellence and to promote information about and study of
contemporary international issues. Students are eligible for membership beginning in their
junior year, and must have a 3.2 cumulative grade point average and a 3.3 within the
major.
Psi Chi, the national honorary society in Psychology, was reactivated at Rhodes in 1987
for the purpose of encouraging, stimulating, and maintaining excellence in scholarship and
advancing the science of Psychology as a profession. Membership in this society, which is
afﬁliated with the American Psychological Association and which is a member of the
Association of College Honor Societies, is by invitation and limited to Psychology majors.
Theta Nu chapter of the National Order of Omega was chartered in the spring of 1987. It
serves to recognize outstanding members of the fraternities and sororities on the basis of
scholarship and leadership. A grade point average equal to or above the all-Greek
average is required for consideration for membership. Applications for members are
extended each year to eligible rising juniors and seniors.
The Alpha Epsilon Delta Chapter of Phi Alpha Theta, international honor society in History,
was established at Rhodes in 1990. Phi Alpha Theta brings students, teachers, and
writers of history together both intellectually and socially, and it encourages and assists
historical research and publication by its members. Students who have completed the
required number of history hours at the 3.3 level and maintain at least a 3.2 overall grade
point average are eligible for membership. Student members host informational gatherings
for ﬁrst-year students, hold career workshops, sponsor speakers, and publish an annual
journal of exemplary student papers.
Beta Beta Beta is an honorary and professional society for students of the biological
sciences. The Mu Rho Chapter of this national society was founded at Rhodes College in
1992. It seeks to encourage scholarly attainment in this ﬁeld of learning by reserving its
regular membership for those who achieve superior academic records and who indicate
special aptitude for and major interest in the life sciences.
Pi Delta Phi is an honorary society for students of French language, literature, and culture.
The Nu Nu chapter of this national society was founded at Rhodes in 2004. The purpose
of the society is to recognize outstanding scholarship in the French language and its
literatures, increase the knowledge and appreciation of Americans for the cultural
contributions of the French-speaking world, and to stimulate and encourage French and
francophone cultural activities.
Iota Iota Iota is a national honor society that recognizes academic excellence in the ﬁeld of
women’s studies while striving to maintain the feminist values central to women’s studies:
egalitarianism, inclusiveness, and a celebration of the diversity of women’s experiences.General Information https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/52
55 of 74 7/25/23, 12:53 PM
Iota Iota Iota works to promote an interest in women’ s studies and research in social
problems affecting all women. The Chi Chapter of Iota Iota Iota was chartered at Rhodes
College in 2004.
Delta Phi Alpha, the National German Honor Society seeks to recognize excellence in the
study of German and to provide an incentive for higher scholarship. The Society aims to
promote the study of the German language, literature and civilization and endeavors to
emphasize those aspects of German life and culture which are of universal value and
which contribute to man’s eternal search for peace and truth.
Dobro Slovo, the National Slavic Honor Society, is an honorary organization for talented
undergraduate and graduate students in the Slavic languages. It serves as a means for
the recognition of academic excellence in the study of Slavic languages, literature, and
history, and provides incentive for scholarly interest in Slavic life and culture. The Rhodes
Chapter of the society was established in 2003.
Sigma Delta Pi is the national collegiate honorary society for students who distinguish
themselves in the study of Hispanic language, literature and culture. The society was
founded in 1919 at The University of California, and the Phi Epsilon chapter was
established at Rhodes in 2005.
Theta Alpha Kappa is the only national honor society serving the needs of those involved
in the study of religion and/or theology at both the baccalaureate and post-baccalaureate
levels of higher education. Honoring excellence in these academic ﬁelds is its primary
purpose, and it currently hosts over 140 local chapters throughout the United States at
institutions both large and small, public and private. The Rhodes chapter, Alpha Epsilon
Iota, was created in 2000 and serves approximately 40 members. Candidates for
admission to Theta Alpha Kappa must have an overall GPA of at least 3.0, at least 12
credit hours in Religious Studies (including Humanities “Search” courses) and at least a
3.5 GPA in those classes.
Nu Rho Psi, national Neuroscience honor society, was established at Rhodes in 2014.  
The Rhodes chapter will be the ﬁrst for Tennessee.   The objectives of Nu Rho Psi are to
encourage professional interest and excellence in scholarship in neuroscience, award
recognition to students who have achieved such excellence, promote intellectual and
social interaction between students, faculty, and professionals in the ﬁeld, and encourage
service to the community.
Kappa Alpha Omicron is the honor society of the Interdisciplinary Environmental
Association, honoring academic excellence in the studies of environmental science or
environmental studies. The society recognizes academic achievement and outreach. The
Rho Chapter at Rhodes College was established in 2021.
Printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/general-information/student-lifeGeneral Information https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/52
56 of 74 7/25/23, 12:53 PM
Academic Advising and Support
Academic Advising
The mission of academic advising at Rhodes is to promote student learning. Each
entering student is assigned an academic advisor, who will function in that capacity until
the student formally declares a major. Major declaration must be done prior to the
registration period of the student's spring semester of their sophomore year. At that point,
a faculty advisor from the major department is either selected by or assigned to the
student.
Assisted by the academic advisor, the student learns:
• To understand the nature of a liberal arts education;
• To assess his or her strengths and weaknesses;
• To formulate educational and career goals;
• To plan a course of action to achieve those goals.
Career Advising
The Career Services staff assists students in evaluating majors, exploring career ﬁelds,
and preparing for post-graduation plans. Students are encouraged to schedule a meeting
with a Career Services staff member as early as their ﬁrst year to take advantage of
career advising, internships, and programs which will lead to future success. Career
Services offers opportunities to engage with employers and graduate school
representatives through programs including Meet the Firms, Graduate School Expo, Fall
and Spring Career Fairs, and other networking opportunities.  
Each year, approximately 55% of graduates will go into full-time careers (including full-
time volunteer programs such as the Peace Corps) and approximately 42% will seek an
additional degree. 
In addition to the programs and services offered by Career Services, students can seek
pre-professional advisement from designated faculty advisors. In some cases, very
speciﬁc recommendations for pre-professional courses have been developed: Medicine
and the Health Sciences, Business, and Law. The advisors named below have this
information and should be consulted early in one’s undergraduate work.
Pre-Professional Advisors
• Accounting: Professor Wendy Bailey
• Architecture: Professor David McCarthyGeneral Information https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/52
57 of 74 7/25/23, 12:53 PM
• Business:
◦ Accounting: Professor Wendy Bailey
◦ Finance: Professor Jade Planchon
◦ Management: Professor Dee Birnbaum
◦ Marketing: Professor Sujan Dan
• Clinical Psychology: Professor Katie White
• Education: Professor  Zachary Casey
• Engineering: Professor Ann Viano
• Foreign Service: Professor Stephen Ceccoli
• Health Care Management: Professor Dee Birnbaum
• Health Professions: Director Jessica Kelso
• Law: Professor  Anna Eldridge
• Ministry and Church-Related Professions: Professor Stephen Haynes and Chaplain
Beatrix Weil
• Museum Curation: Professor Victor Coonin and Professor David McCarthy
• Music: Professor Courtenay Harter
• Theatre: Professor Joy Fairﬁeld
• Veterinary Medicine: Director Jessica Kelso
Preparation for Graduate Study
Approximately 40% of Rhodes students will enroll in a graduate or professional degree
program within a year of graduation. Students can increase their marketability for graduate
school by prioritizing academic study, participating in academic research, completing
internships, and/or engaging in leadership and service positions.  
The Rhodes liberal arts curriculum provides students with a solid foundation for future
study. As students begin to enter their sophomore or junior year, they should identify
faculty members who can assist with course selection and other academic opportunities to
ensure that students have the background needed to pursue an advanced degree. It is
important to note that some graduate degrees will require speciﬁc courses in order to be
considered for admission while other graduate programs will consider a wide breath of
upper-level coursework to be more appealing. Students should consult with their faculty
advisor for guidance on the type of courses that would be most relevant for an advanced
degree in their chosen ﬁeld of study. In addition to faculty advisors, the Career Services
staff also serves as a resource for students by aiding with graduate school essays and
interviews. 
Academic Support Services for Students
Rhodes College offers academic support services to assist students in reaching theirGeneral Information https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/52
58 of 74 7/25/23, 12:53 PM
academic goals.  The mission of the Student Success Staff is to support the personal
growth and academic development of students and serve as a resource to all members of
the Rhodes community. Staff members on the Student Success Team meet with students
who need academic encouragement, mentoring, and individualized support.
Academic and Learning Resources provides individual assistance, workshops, and peer
programs focused on learning and time management to help students develop personal
and academic strategies. Peer Coaching helps students with goal setting, scheduling, and
study habits. Supplemental Instruction facilitates regular, weekly group study sessions to
integrate how-to-learn with what-to-learn for typically challenging classes. Peer Tutoring
helps students to better understand course content.
Student Accessibility Services provides resources to students who qualify for academic
accommodations. Laser Coaching consists of free group coaching sessions focused on
planning and prioritizing each week. It is led by an ADHD Coach who also provides private
ADHD Coaching for an additional fee. Students and families can meet with the consultant
to learn how ADHD Coaching may ﬁt the student's needs. The Kurzweil/Fireﬂy Software is
an assistive technology resource designed to enhance student learning. Due to the
College's site-wide license, it is free to all students, faculty, and staff. Rhodes Testing
Room, which is located in 303 Barret Library, is a non-proctored, distraction-limited testing
space accessible by fob only to Rhodes students with approved testing accommodations. 
Student Accessibility 
Rhodes is committed to ensuring educational programs are accessible to all qualiﬁed
students.  Therefore, in accordance with the provisions of Section 504 of the Rehabilitation
Act of 1973 and Title III of the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, as amended, the
Ofﬁce of Student Accessibility Services (SAS) provides reasonable accommodations,
academic adjustments, and/or auxiliary aids on a case-by-case basis for students who
have a demonstrated need for these services. Accommodations are determined
individually and designed to meet the student’s needs without fundamentally altering the
nature of the College’s instructional programs.  
All accommodation requests are the responsibility of the student. Prospective students
with accessibility concerns should contact the Ofﬁce of Admission. Enrolled students with
disabilities or temporary conditions should contact SAS to discuss accommodation needs
and speciﬁc barriers to inclusion. Requirements include but are not limited to mental
health, attention, learning, vision, hearing, chronic health, and mobility impairments.
Reasonable accommodations are established through an interactive process between the
student, SAS, and faculty.   
Since some accommodations may require several weeks of preparation, students should
contact SAS to discuss access needs as soon as possible after admission. For additionalGeneral Information https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/52
59 of 74 7/25/23, 12:53 PM
information on SAS resources and the process for requesting accommodations, please
get in touch with SAS at  accessibilityservices@rhodes.edu , 901-843-3815, Burrow Hall
4th ﬂoor,  www.rhodes.edu/accessibility .  
Printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/general-information/academic-advising-and-
support
Academic Calendar
The academic year consists of two semesters, each containing fourteen weeks of
instruction and a ﬁfteenth week devoted to examinations. The ﬁrst semester begins in late
August and ends in mid-December; the second semester begins in January and ends in
early May. Summer course offerings  consist of two 5 week sessions as well as various
academic study programs offered across the curriculum. A detailed calendar including
dates of recesses and special academic days is included in the catalogue, and may be
found elsewhere on the website. 
Printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/general-information/academic-calendar
2022-2023 Academic Calendar
Fall Semester 2022  
Opening Faculty Meeting August 17, Wednesday
Orientation for New Students August 18-23, Thursday - Tuesday
Opening Convocation *Formal Academic
Occasion*August 19, Friday
Late Registration Begins August 22, Monday
Classes Begin August 24, Wednesday
Last Day to Submit Work for Conditional Grades August 24, Wednesday
Late Registration Ends August 30, Tuesday
Conditional Grades Due to Registrar August 30, Tuesday
Enrollment Clearance Ends August 31, Wednesday
Extended Drop Period Begins August 31, Wednesday
Labor Day/No Classes September 5, Monday
Extended Drop Period Ends September 14, WednesdayGeneral Information https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/52
60 of 74 7/25/23, 12:53 PM
Withdraw Period Begins September 15, Thursday
End of First Seven Weeks October 12, Wednesday
Mid-Term Grades Due October 14, Friday, 5 p.m.
Fall Recess Begins, 10 p.m. October 14, Friday
Fall Recess Ends 8 a.m. October 19, Wednesday
Spring 2023 Pre-Registration Begins October 26, Wednesday
Withdraw Period Ends/Pass Fail Option Ends November 11, Friday
Thanksgiving Recess Begins November 22, Tuesday, 10 p.m.
Thanksgiving Recess Ends November 28, Monday, 8 a.m.
Classes End December 7, Wednesday, 10 p.m.
Reading Day December 8, Thursday
Final ExaminationsDecember 9 - 14, Friday -
Wednesday
End of Fall Semester December 14, Wednesday
Final Grades Due December 16, Friday, 5 p.m.
   
Spring Semester 2023  
Orientation for New Students   January 9, Monday
Late Registration Begins January 9, Monday
Classes Begin January 11, Wednesday
Last Day to Submit Work for Conditional Grades January 11, Wednesday
MLK Jr Day/No Classes January 16, Monday
Enrollment Clearance Ends January 18, Wednesday
Late Registration Ends January 18, Wednesday
Conditional Grades Due to Registrar January 18, Wednesday
Extended Drop Period Begins January 19, Thursday
   
Extended Drop Period Ends February 1, Wednesday
Withdraw Period Begins February 2, ThursdayGeneral Information https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/52
61 of 74 7/25/23, 12:53 PM
End of First Seven Weeks March 1, Wednesday
Mid-Term Grades Due March 6, Monday, 9 a.m.
Spring Recess Begins March 10, Friday, 10 p.m.
Spring Recess Ends March 20, Monday, 8 a.m.
Fall 2023 Pre-Registration Begins March 27, Monday
Easter Recess Begins April 5, Wednesday, 10 p.m.
Easter Recess Ends April 10, Monday, 8 a.m.
Withdraw Period Ends/Pass Fail Option Ends April 10, Monday  
Awards Convocation *Formal Academic
Occasion*April 28, Friday
Rhodes Symposium April 28, Friday
Classes End April 28, Friday, 10 p.m.
Reading Day April 29, Saturday
Final Examinations Begin May 1, Monday
Reading Day May 4, Thursday
Final Examinations End/End of Semester May 6, Saturday
Final Grades Due May 8, Monday, 9 a.m.
Baccalaureate *Formal Academic Occasion* May 12, Friday
Commencement *Formal Academic Occasion* May 13, Saturday
   
Summer 2023 Term  
Summer Session I  
Classes Begin  May 15, Monday
Last Day to add May 16, Tuesday
Drop Period Ends May 19, Friday
Memorial Day Holiday/No Classes May 29, Monday
Withdraw and Pass/Fail Options End June 8, Thursday
Classes End June 16, Friday
Final Exams June 17, SaturdayGeneral Information https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/52
62 of 74 7/25/23, 12:53 PM
Juneteenth Holiday/No Classes June 19, Monday
Final Grades Due June 20, Tuesday, NOON
   
Summer Session II  
Classes Begin June 21, Wednesday
Add Period Ends June 22, Thursday
Drop Period  Ends June 27, Tuesday
Independence Day Holiday/No Classes July 4, Tuesday
Withdraw and Pass/Fail Options End July 17, Monday
Classes End July 25, Tuesday
Final Exams July 26, Wednesday
Final Grades Due July 28, Friday, NOON
   
Full Summer Session Final Grades Due August 4, Friday, 5 p.m.
Printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/general-information/academic-calendar
/2022-2023-academic-calendar
2023-2024 Academic Calendar
 
Fall Semester 2023  
Open Enrollment (Add/Drop) Begins July 24, Monday, NOON
Opening Faculty Meeting August 16, Wednesday
Orientation for New Students August 18-22, Friday-Tuesday
Opening Convocation *Formal Academic Occasion* August 18, Friday
Classes Begin August 23, Wednesday
Last Day to Submit Work for Prior Term Conditional
GradesAugust 23, Wednesday
Registration Add Period Ends August 29, TuesdayGeneral Information https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/52
63 of 74 7/25/23, 12:53 PM
Extended Drop Period Begins August 30, Wednesday
Labor Day/No Classes September 4, Monday
Extended Drop Period Ends September 13, Wednesday
Withdraw Period Begins September 14, Thursday
End of First Seven Weeks October 11, Wednesday
Mid-Term Grades Due October 13, Friday, 5 p.m.
Fall Recess Begins October 13, Friday, 10 p.m.
Fall Recess Ends October 18, Wednesday, 8 a.m.
Spring 2024 Onboarding and Advising Appointments
BeginOctober 18, Wednesday
Presidential Inauguration *Formal Academic
Occasion*October 21, Saturday
Spring 2024 Onboarding and Advising Appointments
EndNovember 3, Friday
Withdraw Period Ends November 10, Friday
Pass/Fail Option Ends November 10, Friday
Spring 2024 Registration Appointments November 13-17, Monday - Friday
Thanksgiving Recess Begins November 21, Tuesday, 10 p.m.
Thanksgiving Recess Ends November 27, Monday, 8 a.m.
Classes End December 6, Wednesday, 10 p.m.
Reading Day December 7, Thursday
Final ExaminationsDecember 8 - 13, Friday -
Wednesday
End of Fall Semester December 13, Wednesday
Final Grades Due December 15, Friday, 5 p.m.
   
Spring Semester 2024  
Open Enrollment (Add/Drop) Begins January 8, Monday
Orientation for New Students January 8, Monday
Classes Begin January 10, WednesdayGeneral Information https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/52
64 of 74 7/25/23, 12:53 PM
Last Day to Submit Work for Prior Term Conditional
GradesJanuary 10, Wednesday
MLK Jr Day/No Classes January 15, Monday
Registration Add Period Ends January 17, Wednesday
Extended Drop Period Begins January 18, Thursday
Extended Drop Period Ends January 31, Wednesday
Withdraw Period Begins February 1, Thursday
End of First Seven Weeks February 28, Wednesday
Mid-Term Grades Due March 4, Monday, 9 a.m.
Spring Recess Begins March 8, Friday, 10 p.m.
Spring Recess Ends March 18, Monday, 8 a.m.
Easter Recess Begins March 27, Wednesday, 10 p.m.
Easter Recess Ends April 1, Monday, 8 a.m.
Withdraw Period Ends April 5, Friday
Pass/Fail Option Ends April 5, Friday
Classes End April 25, Thursday, 10 p.m.
Awards Convocation *Formal Academic Occasion* April 26, Friday
Rhodes Symposium April 26, Friday
Reading Day April 27, Saturday
Final Examinations Begin April 29, Monday
Reading Day May 2, Thursday
Final Examinations End/End of Semester May 4, Saturday
Final Grades Due May 6, Monday, 9 a.m.
Baccalaureate *Formal Academic Occasion* May 10, Friday
Commencement *Formal Academic Occasion* May 11, Saturday
   
Summer 2024 Term  
   
Summer Session I  General Information https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/52
65 of 74 7/25/23, 12:53 PM
Classes Begin May 13, Monday
Registration Add Period Ends May 14, Tuesday
Registration Drop Period Ends May 17, Friday
Withdraw Period Begins May 18, Saturday
Memorial Day Holiday/No Classes May 27, Monday
Withdraw Period Ends June 6, Thursday
Pass/Fail Option End June 6, Thursday
Classes End June 14, Friday
Final Exams June 15, Saturday
Final Grades Due  June 17, Monday, NOON
   
Summer Session II (tentative)  
Classes Begin June 20, Thursday
Registration Add Period Ends June 21, Friday
Registration Drop Period Ends June 26, Wednesday
Withdraw Period Begins June 27, Thursday
Independence Day Holiday/No Classes July 4, Thursday
Withdraw Period Ends July 16, Tuesday
Pass/Fail Option End July 16, Tuesday
Classes End July 24, Wednesday
Final Exams July 25, Thursday
Final Grades Due July 27, Saturday, NOON
   
Full Summer Session Final Grades Due August 2, Friday, NOON
Printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/general-information/academic-calendar
/2023-2024-academic-calendar
2024-2025 Academic CalendarGeneral Information https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/52
66 of 74 7/25/23, 12:53 PM
Fall Semester 2024  
Opening Faculty Meeting August 21, Wednesday
Orientation for New Students August 22 -27, Thursday-Tuesday
Opening Convocation *Formal Academic
Occasion*August 23, Friday
Late Registration Begins August 26, Monday
Classes Begin August 28, Wednesday
Last Day to Submit work for Conditional Grades August 28, Wednesday
Labor Day/No Classes September 2, Monday
Late Registration Ends September 4, Wednesday
Enrollment Clearance Ends September 4, Wednesday
Extended Drop Period Begins September 5, Thursday
Extended Drop Period Ends September 18, Wednesday, 5 p.m.
Withdraw Period Begins September 19, Thursday
End of First Seven Weeks October 16, Wednesday
Mid-Term Grades Due October 18, Friday, 5 p.m.
Fall Recess Begins, 10 p.m. October 18, Friday
Fall Recess Ends 8 a.m. October 23, Wednesday
Spring 2025 Pre-Registration Begins October 30, Wednesday
Pass/Fail Option Ends November 15, Friday, 5 p.m.
Withdraw Period Ends November 15, Friday, 5 p.m.
Thanksgiving Recess Begins November 26, Tuesday, 10 p.m.
Thanksgiving Recess Ends December 2, Monday, 8 a.m.
Classes End December 11, Wednesday, 10 p.m.
Reading Day December 12, Thursday
Final ExaminationsDecember 13-18, Friday -
Wednesday
End of Fall Semester December 18, Wednesday
Final Grades Due December 20, Friday, 5 p.m.General Information https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/52
67 of 74 7/25/23, 12:53 PM
   
Spring Semester 2025  
Orientation for New Students January 13, Monday
Late Registration Begins January 13, Monday
Classes Begin January 15, Wednesday
Last Day to Submit Work for Conditional Grades January 15, Wednesday
MLK Jr Day/No Classes January 20, Monday
Enrollment Clearance Ends January 22, Wednesday, 5 p.m.
Late Registration Ends January 22, Wednesday, 5 p.m.
Extended Drop Period Begins January 23, Thursday
Extended Drop Period Ends February 5, Wednesday, 5 p.m.
Withdraw Period Begins February 6, Thursday
End of First Seven Weeks March 5, Wednesday
Mid-Term Grades Due March 7, Friday, 9 a.m.
Spring Recess Begins March 7, Friday, 10 p.m.
Spring Recess Ends March 17, Monday, 8 a.m.
Fall 2025 Pre-Registration Opens March 19, Wednesday
Pass/Fail Option Ends April 11, Friday, 5 p.m.
Withdraw Period Ends April 11, Friday, 5 p.m.
Easter Recess Begins April 16, Wednesday, 10 p.m.
Easter Recess Ends April 21, Monday, 8 a.m.
Awards Convocation *Formal Academic
Occasion*May 2, Friday
Rhodes Symposium May 2, Friday
Classes End May 2, Friday 10 p.m.
Reading Day May 3, Saturday
Final Examinations Begin May 5, Monday
Reading Day May 8, Thursday
Final Examinations End/End of Semester May 10, SaturdayGeneral Information https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/52
68 of 74 7/25/23, 12:53 PM
Final Grades Due May 12, Monday, 9 a.m.
Baccalaureate *Formal Academic Occasion* May 16, Friday
Commencement *Formal Academic Occasion* May 17, Saturday
   
Summer 2025 Term  
   
Summer Session I  
Classes Begin May 19, Monday
Last Day to add May 20, Tuesday
Memorial Day Holiday/No Classes May 26, Monday
Drop Ends May 27, Tuesday
Withdraw and Pass/Fail Options End June 12, Thursday
Juneteenth/No Classes June 19, Thursday
Classes End  June 20, Friday
Final Exams June 21, Saturday
Final Grades Due June 23, Monday, NOON
   
Summer Session II  
Classes Begin June 25, Wednesday
Add Period Ends June 26, Thursday
Drop Ends July 2, Wednesday
Independence Day Holiday/No Classes July 4, Friday
Withdraw and Pass/Fail Options End July 21, Monday
Classes End July 29, Tuesday
Final Exams July 30, Wednesday
Final Grades Due August 1, Friday, NOON
   
Full Summer Session Final Grades Due August 8, Friday, NOONGeneral Information https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/52
69 of 74 7/25/23, 12:53 PM
Printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/general-information/academic-calendar
/2024-2025-academic-calendar
Student Expectations & Behavioral Policies
Student Expectations
The College expects all students to conduct themselves as responsible citizens of this
community. Therefore, all students must abide by the Rhodes Honor System – the Honor
Code, the Standards for the Rhodes Community, and the Rhodes Commitment to
Diversity. With Honor System, everyone from the Rhodes College community maintains
the values and expectations by which they live and learn together.  
Persistent or extreme departures from this standard may lead to restrictions, removal from
campus, suspension, or expulsion from the college. Rhodes reserves the right to exclude
persons whose conduct is undesirable at any time. In such cases, no tuition, fees, or room
and board refunds are made, and the College, its students, faculty, administrators,
councils, committees, and ofﬁcers do not bear any liability.  
The administration of rules for student behavior is the responsibility of the Dean of
Students, Ofﬁce of Community Standards, administrative designees, the Honor Council,
and the Community Standards Council. 
This section of the College Catalogue provides a broad overview. In addition, the Student
Handbook, available on the College website, contains all student policies.  
The Honor Council and Community Standards Council
The students of Rhodes assume responsibility for honorable conduct in campus life. They
elect an Honor Council and a Community Standards Council. Each Council is composed
of elected representatives from each of the four classes. The Councils investigate alleged
infractions of the Honor Code and Standards of Conduct and enforce regulations with
sanctions up to and including expulsion. The decision may be appealed to the Faculty
Appeals Committee or a designated Appeals Committee. These committees may return
cases to the appropriate Council for reconsideration; in that case, the Council’s decision is
ﬁnal. Every entering student is expected at matriculation to sign a pledge promising to
uphold the College Commitment to Diversity Statement, the Honor Code, and the
Standards of Conduct.  
Alcohol Use
A complete description of the Rhodes College Social and Alcohol Policy can be found in
the Student Handbook on the College website. As a community, we embrace the vision ofGeneral Information https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/52
70 of 74 7/25/23, 12:53 PM
a healthy and balanced social environment grounded in trust and open communication
among faculty, staff, and students. Such an environment fosters personal and community
growth and embodies a sense of responsibility and accountability to self and others. This
vision depends upon each member's commitment to achieve and maintain inclusiveness,
consistency, continual education, and the growth of shared traditions. It is our duty to one
another. Rhodes College supports legal, responsible, and healthy behaviors and reﬂects
our community values. 
Rhodes is committed to providing the members of its community with information about
alcohol as well as conﬁdential referrals for professional assistance if it is needed. An
awareness of the positive and negative effects of alcohol consumption may assist in
efforts to make safe and responsible choices about alcohol. Educational programs are
organized and conducted annually to promote continued awareness and encourage an
attitude of genuine concern and care for others.  
Drug Use
The possession, use, sale, or distribution of illegal drugs, the misuse or abuse of
medications, or other legal drugs on the Rhodes campus is prohibited. Such conduct:  
• Violates the law; 
• Violates one’s physical and mental health; and, 
• Violates the fabric of the community with serious security risks resulting from dealing
with individuals operating outside the law. 
As citizens, the students, faculty, and staff of Rhodes are responsible for knowing and
complying with all applicable state and local laws that make it a crime to possess, sell,
deliver, or manufacture those drugs considered controlled substances by the state of
Tennessee. Any member of the Rhodes community who violates the law is subject to
prosecution and punishment by civil authorities and to disciplinary proceedings by the
College.  
Sexual Misconduct Policy
Rhodes College is committed to ensuring a safe learning environment that supports the
dignity of all members of the Rhodes community. Rhodes does not discriminate on the
basis of sex in any of its education or employment programs and activities. Rhodes will
not tolerate any form of sexual harassment, including sexual assault, dating violence,
domestic violence, or stalking.   
This Title IX Policy (the “Policy”) is intended to ensure that all members of the Rhodes
community involved in a Title IX case receive appropriate support and fair treatment and
that allegations of sexual harassment are handled in a prompt, thorough, and equitable
manner. General Information https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/52
71 of 74 7/25/23, 12:53 PM
All Rhodes students and employees are expected to comply with this policy. Rhodes
strongly encourages students to report instances of sexual harassment immediately. In
addition, according to Rhodes’ Employee Handbook and Rhodes’ Mandatory Reporter
Policy, employees are required to report such instances.  
Rhodes will review, evaluate, and make any revisions or amendments to this Policy on an
ongoing and as-needed basis.  
General inquiries about the application of this Policy should be directed to the College’s
Title IX Coordinator:  
Inez Warner, J.D. 
Title IX Coordinator  
Rhodes College 
Southwestern Hall, Ste. 303 
2000 North Parkway 
Memphis, TN 38112 
901-843-3354 
warneri@rhodes.edu    
  
The complete sexual misconduct policy is in the Student Handbook  and on the Title IX and
Sexual Misconduct page . 
College Initiated Administrative Withdrawal (CIAW)
The College occasionally faces the problem of students who pose a threat to themselves
or others, who are unable to cope, or who create a pattern of extreme disruption. If such
behavior violates College rules and regulations, the case will be referred to the Dean of
Students or the Dean’s designee for action.  
The College may administratively withdraw a student from classes, remove a student from
residence halls, and/or require conditions for continued enrollment when one of the
following transpires:  
• The student signiﬁcantly disrupts the activities of the college community:  
• The student poses a direct risk to the health or safety of others; or  
• The student demonstrates evidence of signiﬁcant impairment such that they are
unable to participate safely and successfully in the college's academic and/or
residential life and cannot independently determine that a voluntary leave is
needed.  
In the circumstance described above, the Dean of Students (DOS), in consultation with
the appropriate medical, psychological, and academic resources, may administrativelyGeneral Information https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/52
72 of 74 7/25/23, 12:53 PM
withdraw a student from their classes, remove the student from the residence halls, and/or
place conditions on the student’s continued enrollment. The decision must be based on
assessing 1) the probability, nature, duration, and severity of the disruption, risk, and/or
impairment; and 2) whether reasonable accommodations can mitigate the risk allowing the
student to remain enrolled. Under certain circumstances, either before or after deciding to
withdraw the student administratively, DOS may mandate that the student undergo a
psychological or medical assessment to evaluate the student’s ability to participate
successfully in the college community.   
DOS’s determination regarding CIAW and the reasons supporting the decision are shared
in written form with the student. The written determination includes the length of
separation from the college and describes the conditions the student may seek to return.  
A student may appeal the CIAW determination in writing, and provide supporting
documentation, within forty-eight (48) hours, the Vice President for Student Life, whose
decision is the college's ﬁnal decision.  
Campus Modes of Communication
The two-ofﬁcial means of communication at Rhodes are campus mail and Rhodes email.
All students, staff, and faculty have a personal Rhodes e-mail address, and students are
expected to check this account regularly during the semester, breaks, and recesses.  
Ofﬁcial notices to individuals and the campus community are sent via e-mail; such
correspondence is considered ofﬁcial. In addition to email, some ofﬁcial notices,
communication, and information are sent via campus mail. For this reason, all students
must maintain a P.O. Box in the mailroom in Burrow Hall.  
Residency Requirement
Living on campus is a vital part of the college experience and aids the student’s
adjustment to college. Therefore, all ﬁrst-time ﬁrst-year students at Rhodes must live on
campus for their ﬁrst three full academic years. Transfer students must live in College
housing until they have completed three full academic years; previous enrollment at other
institutions counts toward fulﬁlling this requirement.  
Exchange students must reside in College housing for their enrollment at Rhodes.  
All rising sophomore resident students must participate in the housing lottery process to
comply with the residency requirement. If a student does not participate in the housing
lottery, the Ofﬁce of Residence Life will select a space for the student. The student will be
notiﬁed of the room and meal plan assignment in writing.  
Printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/general-information/student-expectations-General Information https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/52
73 of 74 7/25/23, 12:53 PM
behavioral-policiesGeneral Information https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/52
74 of 74 7/25/23, 12:53 PM
Home »Programs of Study
Published on Rhodes College: Rhodes Catalogue (https://catalog.rhodes.edu/)
Programs of Study
A course at Rhodes is an academic activity undertaken by a student that is structured,
directed, advised, and evaluated by a faculty member. Typically, a course requires a
student to read, listen, discuss, and write while learning and developing speciﬁc abilities
and sensibilities and while internalizing information and ideas from the speciﬁc subject
areas outlined in the course syllabus. These activities require many hours of work over a
semester and involve regular meetings with the faculty member and other enrolled
students. The meetings or class sessions provide opportunities for lecture by faculty,
discussion among students, student presentations, and other activities directly related to
students’ learning that are naturally done in a collective setting. Class meetings and the
ﬁnal examination period together usually constitute only one-fourth to one-third of the time
spent on a course, so the majority of time a student dedicates to a course is outside of the
classroom or laboratory. Measured in academic credit, a typical student’s work load each
semester is sixteen credits. Such a load corresponds to approximately ﬁfty to ﬁfty-ﬁve
hours of work per week and is consistent with the understanding that a student’s academic
work is considered to be his or her full-time job while enrolled in the College.
One credit is equivalent to one semester hour. A student is expected to spend a minimum
of forty-six hours in academic study for every hour of academic credit. This principle
applies to directed inquiries, tutorial study, and to all courses in the curriculum.
The College reserves the right to cancel any course for which there is insufﬁcient
enrollment.
“Fall” and “Spring” below the course titles indicate the semester in which the course is
normally taught. However, course offerings are affected by semester or annual stafﬁng
patterns, so the semester class schedule should be consulted for the ofﬁcial course
offerings for any one semester. Course credit is shown at the right of the line.
Courses taught in a two-semester sequence are normally scheduled with the Fall
Semester course being the ﬁrst in the sequence. In most cases, the second course in the
sequence requires successful completion of the ﬁrst course, but there are some
sequential courses that allow the second course to be taken ﬁrst. The course descriptions
will identify such courses. Credit is given for half of a hyphenated course should the
student not enroll the following semester.Programs of Study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53
1 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 PM
Course Numbering
Normally courses numbered in the one-hundreds and two-hundreds are for ﬁrst and
second year students; those in the three-hundreds and four-hundreds are for juniors and
seniors. Courses numbered above 500 are graduate-level courses and are open only to
students admitted to the graduate program. Courses numbered above 800 are courses
designed for and offered only to students attending any of the various Rhodes foreign
study programs.
In general, courses numbered in the one-hundreds and two-hundreds are offered yearly.
Higher level courses are frequently offered every other year. Students making long range
plans for majors are urged to consult with the chairperson of the department for
information concerning the sequence of offerings.
From time to time, special topics courses are offered by faculty members. These courses
are not listed in the catalogue by title or description. They are conducted in a manner
consistent with regular course offerings, governed by normal class schedules and
examination policies; however, they may not be used to satisfy degree requirements
unless so speciﬁed at the time the course was approved. Special topics courses are also
used for transfer credit in some cases where no exact equivalent course is offered in the
Rhodes curriculum.
Foundation Courses
Only certain courses in the Rhodes curriculum and in each department are approved to
meet Foundation requirements. Each of these courses is designated in the course
description in this catalog and on the class schedule for each semester online. It is the
student’s responsibility to be aware of what courses in which they may be enrolled satisfy
foundation requirements. Such courses are submitted by faculty members to the
Foundations Curriculum Committee for approval. It is not possible for students to request
foundation credit approval by the Committee for any coursework with the exception of
Foundation 11. Self-initiated requests for F11 credit for certain coursework or experiences
may be requested using the appropriate form available online.  
Directed Inquiries may not be used unless requested by the department and approved by
the Foundations Curriculum Committee. With very few exceptions, the courses designated
as fulﬁlling degree requirements carry four credits. An accumulation of one-credit applied
music may be used to satisfy the Fine Arts or the F5 requirements.
Class Schedules
Courses carrying four credits normally meet for a total of 150 minutes per week. The four-
credit classes meeting three days per week meet for ﬁfty minutes during each class
period. Those four-credit classes meeting two days per week meet for seventy-ﬁvePrograms of Study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53
2 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 PM
minutes during each class period. Others will meet four or ﬁve times per week on other
daily schedules. Laboratory courses carrying four credits will also meet one or two
afternoons per week for the laboratory. The amount of credit does not necessarily equate
to the time spent in the classroom. Outside of class assignments, readings, service-
learning opportunities, and other activities supplement the actual class time.
The Academic Calendar
The academic year consists of two semesters, each containing fourteen weeks of
instruction and a ﬁfteenth week devoted to examinations. The ﬁrst semester begins in late
August and ends in mid-December; the second semester begins in January and ends in
early May. A detailed calendar including dates of recesses and special academic days
may be found elsewhere in the College catalogue or on the Rhodes web site. Students
normally enroll in four courses, totaling sixteen credits, each semester. In each academic
year a student should plan to earn a minimum of thirty-two credits in order to meet all
graduation requirements in the standard four-year undergraduate program.
Printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study
Africana Studies
The mission of the Africana Studies Program is to understand and appreciate the integral
yet distinct experiences of people of African heritage throughout the world. The program’s
curriculum aims to emphasize diasporic connections between Africa, the Caribbean,
Europe and the Americas in an effort to enrich our understanding and appreciation of our
complex and diverse world. Deeply interdisciplinary, the Program engages a wide swath of
faculty from various departments/programs as course instructors and program
interlocutors. Given this approach, the program encourages students to seek appropriate
ways to integrate content and analysis in this broad subject matter with their work in other
disciplines and programs. Graduates of the Program will be critical, thoughtful global
citizens, well-prepared to succeed professionally, academically, and personally in our
pluralistic world.
Printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/africana-studies
Africana Studies: Program Committee
Charles W. McKinney, Jr.,  Chair, Africana Studies,  Associate Professor  of History
Charles Hughes, Director, Lynne and Henry Turley Memphis Center, Associate ProfessorPrograms of Study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53
3 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 PM
of Urban Studies
Duane T. Loynes, Sr. , Assistant Professor, Urban Studies and Africana Studies
Samson Ndanyi,  Assistant Professor, History and Africana Studies
Evelyn Perry, Associate Professor, Anthropology and Sociology
Earl Wright II,  Professor, Anthropology and Sociology
Shatavia Wynn, Assistant Professor, Africana Studies and Religious Studies
Printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/africana-studies/africana-studies-
program-committee
Requirements for a Major in Africana Studies
Requirements for a Major in Africana Studies 
A total of 11 courses (44 credits) as follows:  
1. AFS 105: Introduction to Africana Studies
2. AFS 305: Africana Theory 
3. AFS 485: Senior Seminar in Africana Studies
4. At least four (4) AFS-Approved Electives in the Humanities and Fine Arts Divisions
5. At least four (4) AFS-Approved Electives in the Social Sciences and Natural Sciences
Divisions
At least three electives must be courses based outside of the United States. Students may
not take more than three electives from any one department. At least two electives must
be at the 300/400 level.
Selected topics courses in any department related to Africana subject content may also
count toward the major with approval of the Program Director.
Printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/africana-studies/requirements-
major-africana-studiesPrograms of Study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53
4 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 PM
Requirements for a Minor in Africana Studies
A total of twenty-four (24) credits as follows:
1. Africana Studies 105 (Introduction to Africana Studies)
2. Africana Studies 305 (Africana Theory)
3. Either History 242 (African American History) or English 224 (African American
Literature)
4. International Studies 251 (Government and Politics of Africa)
5. Two (2) approved Africana Studies Electives
Printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/africana-studies/requirements-
minor-africana-studies
Ancient Mediterranean Studies
The Ancient Mediterranean Studies program (formerly Greek and Roman Studies) helps
students develop a thorough understanding of the ancient Greek,  Roman, and associated
cultures as the basis for the artistic, scientiﬁc, social, and political traditions of Western
society.  
In addition to this disciplinary function, the department fulﬁlls other roles in the college's
curriculum:
The F10 Degree Requirement. The degree requirement in languages may be met by the
successful completion of any appropriate four-credit course numbered 201 or higher or by
demonstrating proﬁciency through placement into a language course at a level above 201
and approval by the appropriate language faculty. Students who take 201 (or higher) or
the equivalent at another institution can earn transfer credit, but must still demonstrate
proﬁciency in the speciﬁc language before the degree requirement is satisﬁed. This policy
pertains to languages that are taught at Rhodes. Students for whom English is a second
language may have this requirement waived.
Rhodes offers a secondary licensure program within the Teaching and Learning track of
the Educational Studies major. This program prepares students to teach middle and/or
high school in one of eleven endorsement areas, including Latin. The course of study for
secondary licensure students is designed with guidance from faculty members in the
discipline in which the student is being certiﬁed as well as members of the Educational
Studies Program. All secondary licensure candidates are required to double major inPrograms of Study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53
5 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 PM
Educational Studies and their endorsement discipline.
Printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/ancient-mediterranean-studies
Ancient Mediterranean Studies: Faculty and Staff
Professors
Geoffrey W. Bakewell . 2011. Chair. B.A., Yale University; Ph.D., Brown University. (Plato,
tragedy, Athenian democracy, Greek and Latin languages and literatures)
David H. Sick . 1997. B.A., College of Wooster; M.A. and Ph.D., University of Minnesota.
(Greek and Roman religion, Indo-European mythology, Roman social history, Greek and
Latin languages and literatures)
Associate Professors
Kenneth S. Morrell . 1993. B.A., Stanford University; M.A. and Ph.D., Harvard University.
(Greek and Latin languages and literatures, information technology)
Susan Satterﬁeld . 2008. B.A., University of Alabama; Ph.D., Princeton University.
(Roman history, religion, and historiography; Greek and Latin languages and literatures)
Assistant Professors
Joseph N. Jansen . 2007. B.A., University of Wisconsin; Ph.D., University of Texas at
Austin. (ancient history, economy, and historiography, Greek and Latin languages and
literatures)
Ariel López.  2014.  B.A., University of Buenos Aires; Ph.D. Princeton University. (late
antique history, monasticism, Coptic language and literature)
R. Scott Garner . 2016. B.A. University of Missouri--Columbia; Ph.D., Princeton University.
(oral tradition, Greek epic and poetry, Greek and Latin languages and literatures)Programs of Study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53
6 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 PM
Staff
Christy Waldkirch  2005. Departmental Assistant.
Printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/ancient-mediterranean-studies
/ancient-mediterranean-studies-faculty-and-staff
Honors in Ancient Mediterranean Studies
Detailed information about graduating with honors in Ancient Mediterranean Studies is
available from the department. Only students with a minimum overall GPA of 3.5 and a
GPA within AMS  of 3.7 by the end of the fall semester of their junior year will be eligible to
pursue honors. In addition to fulﬁlling the requirements for the major with a concentration
in either Greek, Latin, Classical Studies, or material culture, students seeking honors will
be expected to complete the following additional work:
1. AMS 495-496: Honors Tutorial. (AMS  496 will count as AMS 475-6 for students
attempting to graduate with honors.)
2. An honors thesis or project that demonstrates an exceptional understanding of one
or more aspects of the ancient world. Such a project might take the form, for
example, of a written thesis, an analysis of archaeological ﬁeldwork, or the
production of a tragedy or comedy.
Printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/ancient-mediterranean-studies
/honors-ancient-mediterranean-studies
Programs Abroad
To help students experience the artifacts of the Greeks and Romans and other
Mediterranean cultures in the areas where they lived, AMS offers a number of
opportunities for travel-study abroad. As described below in the descriptions for AMS  305
and Latin 232, the department regularly offers courses that involve travel and study in
Greece, Italy, and other countries in the Mediterranean and Middle East. Faculty members
also contribute to collaborative initiatives that provide opportunities for research, and the
department secures places for students  in archaeological excavations and surveys, suchPrograms of Study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53
7 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 PM
as those at the harbor at Kenchreai, Greece.  Finally, the college is a member of the
American School of Classical Studies in Athens and the Intercollegiate Center for
Classical Studies in Rome, which operate centers for study and research in Greece and
Italy respectively.
Printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/ancient-mediterranean-studies
/programs-abroad
Requirements for a Major in Ancient Mediterranean
Studies
Concentration in Languages:
A total of thirteen courses (46 credits) as follows:
1. Six courses (24 credits) of ancient Greek,  Latin, or Hebrew. Four of these courses
must be above the 201 level, and the student must take courses in at least two of
these languages.
2. Ancient Mediterranean Studies 275, 474, 475, and 476.
3. Three courses (12 credits) on the cultures and civilizations of the ancient
Mediterranean. The courses below count toward this requirement:
◦ Ancient Mediterranean Studies: 110, 111, 150, 210, 235, 240, 245, 250, 255,
260, 265, 270, 280, 283, 285, 290, 305, 310, 315, 361
◦ Art 209, 218, 219, 220, 353, 365 (when appropriate), 375
◦ History 105 (when appropriate), 211, 221, 222, 223
◦ Humanities (Search) 101, 102, 201 (Classical Track)
◦ Philosophy 201
◦ Religious Studies 214, 280, 281, 282, 283, 285, 286
◦ One of the following: English 315, 316, 319, or 335
Concentration in Cultures:
A total of thirteen courses (46 credits) as follows:Programs of Study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53
8 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 PM
1. One course  (4 credits) of ancient Greek and/or Latin beyond 201.
2. Ancient Mediterranean Studies 275, 474, 475, and 476.
3. Eight courses (32  credits) on the cultures and civilizations of the ancient
Mediterranean. The courses below count toward this requirement:
◦ Ancient Mediterranean Studies: 110, 111, 150, 210, 235, 240, 245, 250, 255,
260, 265, 270, 280, 283, 285, 290, 305, 310, 315, 361
◦ Art 209, 218, 219, 220, 353, 365 (when appropriate), 375
◦ Additional courses in ancient Greek and/or Latin beyond 201
◦ Hebrew 101, 102, 201, 202
◦ History 105 (when appropriate), 211, 221, 222, 223
◦ Humanities (Search) 101, 102, 201 (Classical Track)
◦ Philosophy 201
◦ Religious Studies 214, 280, 281, 282, 283, 285, 286
◦ One of the following: English 315, 316, 319, or 335
Concentration in Archaeology:
A total of thirteen courses (46 credits) as follows:
1. One course (4 credits) of ancient Greek or Latin beyond 201.
2. Ancient Mediterranean Studies 275, 474, 475, and 476.
3. Archaeology 220 or Anthropology 254: Archaeological Methods.
4. Three courses (12 credits) from the following courses:
◦ Art 209, 218, 219, 220, 353, 365 (when appropriate), 375
5. Four courses (16 credits) from the following courses:
◦ Anthropology 290/Archaeology 210
◦ Chemistry 107
◦ Ancient Mediterranean Studies 110, 111, 150, 210, 235, 240, 245, 250, 255,Programs of Study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53
9 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 PM
260, 265, 270, 280, 283, 285, 290, 305, 315, 361
◦ Humanities (Search) 101, 102, 201 (Classical Track)
◦ History 105 (when appropriate),  211, 221, 222, 223
◦ Religious Studies 260
Printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/ancient-mediterranean-studies
/requirements-major-ancient-mediterranean-studies
Requirements for a Minor in Ancient Mediterranean
Studies
Concentration in Languages
A total of seven courses (28 credits) as follows:
1. Four courses (16 credits) of ancient Greek,  Latin, or Hebrew. Two  of these courses
must be above the 201 level, and the student must take courses in at least two of
these ancient languages.
2. Ancient Mediterranean Studies 275.
3. Two courses (8 credits) on the cultures and civilizations of the ancient
Mediterranean. The courses below count toward this requirement:
◦ Ancient Mediterranean Studies: 110, 111, 150, 210, 240, 245, 250, 255, 260,
265, 270, 280, 283, 285, 290, 305, 315, 361
◦ Art 209, 218, 219, 220, 353, 365 (when appropriate), 375
◦ History 105 (when appropriate),  211, 221, 222, 223
◦ Humanities (Search) 101, 102, 201 (Classical Track)
◦ Philosophy 201
◦ Religious Studies 214, 280, 281, 282, 283, 285, 286
◦ One of the following: English 315, 316, 319, or 335
Concentration in CulturesPrograms of Study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53
10 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 PM
A total of seven courses (28 credits) as follows:
1. One course  (4 credits) of ancient Greek and/or Latin beyond 201.
2. Ancient Mediterranean Studies 275.
3. Five courses (20  credits) of courses on the cultures and civilizations of the ancient
Mediterranean. The courses below count toward this requirement:
◦ Ancient Mediterranean Studies: 110, 111, 150, 210, 240, 245, 250, 255, 260,
265, 270, 280, 283, 285, 290, 305, 315, 361
◦ Art 209, 218, 219, 220, 353, 365 (when appropriate), 375
◦ Additional courses in ancient Greek and/or Latin beyond 201
◦ Hebrew 101, 102, 201, 202
◦ History 105 (when appropriate),  211, 221, 222, 223
◦ Humanities (Search) 101, 102, 201 (Classical Track)
◦ Philosophy 201
◦ Religious Studies 214, 280, 281, 282, 283, 285, 286
◦ One of the following: English 315, 316, 319, or 335
Concentration in Archaeology
A total of seven courses (28 credits) as follows:
1. One course (4 credits) of ancient Greek or Latin beyond 201.
2. Ancient Mediterranean Studies 275
3. Archaeology 220 or Anthropology 254: Archaeological Methods.
4. Two courses (8 credits) from the following courses:
◦ Art 209, 210, 218, 219, 220, 353, 365 (when appropriate), 375
5. Two courses (8 credits) from the following courses:
◦ Anthropology 290/Archaeology 210
◦ Chemistry 107Programs of Study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53
11 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 PM
◦ Ancient Mediterranean Studies 110, 111, 150, 210, 240, 245, 250, 255, 260,
265, 270, 280, 283, 285, 290, 305, 315, 361
◦ Humanities (Search) 101, 102, 201 (Classical Track)
◦ History 105 (when appropriate),  211, 221, 222, 223
◦ Religious Studies 260
Printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/ancient-mediterranean-studies
/requirements-minor-ancient-mediterranean-studies
Anthropology and Sociology
Anthropology and Sociology offers students an opportunity to learn how to interpret and
explain the structural and environmental forces that inﬂuence human action, and that have
resulted in myriad cultural forms.  
Printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/anthropology-and-sociology
Anthropology/Sociology: Faculty and Staff
Professor
Susan M. Kus.  1984. B.A., University of Michigan; M.A. and Ph.D., University of
Michigan. (Archaeology, state formation, symbolic anthropology, ethno-archaeology, sub-
Saharan Africa and Madagascar.)
Earl Wright II. 1994. B.A., University of Memphis; 1997. M.A., University of Memphis;
2000 PhD., University of Nebraska. (Historical sociology, qualitative research methods,
race and ethnicity, and urban sociology.
Associate Professor
Jeanne Lopiparo. 2009. B.A., Harvard University; M.A. and Ph.D., University of
California, Berkeley. (Mesoamerican archaeology, material culture, social identity, complex
societies.)
Evelyn Perry.  Chair.  2010. B.A., Colorado College; M.A. and Ph.D., Indiana University.
(Urban and community sociology, culture, inequality, race, class, gender  ethnography.)
Assistant ProfessorsPrograms of Study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53
12 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 PM
Kimberly C. Kasper.  2011. B.A., Fordham University; M.Sc. Florida State University;
M.Sc, Shefﬁeld University; Ph.D., University of Massachusetts, Amherst. (Human-
environmental interactions, paleoethnobotany, spatial analysis, North American
archaeology, ethics.)
Hadi Khoshneviss.  2020. B.A., School of Journalism, Tehran, Iran; M.A. University of
Tehran, Iran; M.A. University College London; London, England; Ph.D. University of South
Florida, Tampa, Florida. (Race and ethnicity, immigration, movement and mobility,
nationalism, social theory, decolonial theory.)
Staff
Anjeanette Johnson-Tiamiyu.  Departmental Assistant
Printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/anthropology-and-sociology
/anthropologysociology-faculty-and-staff
Requirements for a Minor in Anthropology/Sociology
A total of twenty-four (24) credits as follows:
1. Anthropology/Sociology 103 and 105.
2. One of the following courses: Anthropology/Sociology 380 or another theoretically
intensive course. Each semester, we offer at least one elective that counts as a
theoretically intensive course for minors. Consult with the chair. 
3. Three additional courses (12 credits) in Anthropology/Sociology.
Printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/anthropology-and-sociology
/requirements-minor-anthropologysociology
Requirements for a Major in Anthropology/Sociology
A total of 48 credits as follows:
1. Anthropology/Sociology 103 and 105
2. Anthropology/Sociology 351 (to be taken fall of junior year)
3. One of the following methods courses: Anthropology/Sociology 352,
Anthropology/Sociology 254,  Archaeology 120, Archaeology 450, InterdisciplinaryPrograms of Study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53
13 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 PM
Studies 225, Urban Studies 220, or other methodologically intensive course by
petition (ideally  taken junior year)
4. Anthropology/Sociology 380 (to be taken fall of junior year)
5. Anthropology/Sociology 485 (to be taken fall of senior year)
6. Anthropology/Sociology 486 (to be taken spring of senior year)
7. Five additional courses (20 credits) in Anthropology/Sociology
The ﬁve elective courses are chosen in conference with departmental faculty members
and should reﬂect the student’s speciﬁc interests and needs.  In addition to Anthropology
and Sociology courses, students may count the following courses as electives towards the
major: Field Research in Environmental Archaeology (ARCE 120), Learning From Things:
Material Culture Studies (ARCE 210), Archaeological Methods (ARCE 220),
Archaeological Field School (ARCE 450), Geographic Information Systems (INTD 225).
Printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/anthropology-and-sociology
/requirements-major-anthropologysociology
Honors in Anthropology/Sociology
1. Completion of all requirements for a Bachelor of Arts degree in Anthropology and
Sociology, as well as a minimum overall grade point average of 3.50 and a minimum
anthropology and sociology grade point average of 3.50.
2. Completion of Anthropology/Sociology 495 - 496
3. Completion of a substantial research project and paper in an area of special interest
to the candidate.
Printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/anthropology-and-sociology
/honors-anthropologysociology
Archaeology
Archaeology at Rhodes involves ground-level, empirical techniques such as survey and
excavation to recover material remains, as well as the application of scientiﬁc and
statistical methods to the study of material culture.
Printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/archaeologyPrograms of Study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53
14 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 PM
Archaeology: Program Committee
Miriam Clinton , Department of Art  and Art History, Chair of the Archaeology Program (on
sabbatical 2023-2024)
Sarah Ifft Decker , Department of History
Ariel Lopez , Department of Ancient Mediterranean Studies
Jeanne Lopiparo , Department of Anthropology and Sociology
Kenny Morrell , Department of Ancient Mediterranean Studies
Jon Russ , Department of Chemistry
Susan Satterﬁeld , Department of Ancient Mediterranean Studies, interim Chair of the
Archaeology Program 2023-2024
Printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/archaeology/archaeology-
program-committee
Requirements for a Minor in Archaeology
A total of twenty (20) credits as follows:
1. One of the following courses:  
1. Archaeology 210 or Anthropology 290: Learning from Things: Material Culture
Studies
2. Archaeology 220 or Anthropology 254: Archaeological Methods
3. Art 220: Classical Archaeology.  
The other courses on the list above may be taken to satisfy the requirement of three
courses that deal with archaeological issues (Section 2a).
2. Three elective courses that deal with archaeological issues or that offer skills relevant
to archaeology, offered in various departments. At least two departments must be
represented to satisfy this requirement. Students may satisfy this requirement with
three courses that deal substantially with archaeological issues or material (Section
2a), or two courses may be taken from Section 2a and one course from Section 2b
(courses that offer skills relevant to archaeology).  A list of Archaeology-approved
courses is updated and circulated every semester. Students with questions are
encouraged to contact the program chair.
1. At least two courses that deal substantially with archaeological issues or
material. The following courses are representative offerings that satisfy thisPrograms of Study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53
15 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 PM
requirement.  
▪ Anthropology/Sociology 202: Understanding the Past: Archaeological
Perspectives on Culture
▪ Anthropology/Sociology 207: Archaeology of Sex and Gender
▪ Anthropology/Sociology 221: North of the Rio Grande: Indigenous People
of North America
▪ Anthropology/Sociology 265: Selected Introductory Topics in Anthropology
and Sociology (when subject matter pertains to Archaeology)
▪ Anthropology/Sociology 275: Food and Culture
▪ Anthropology/Sociology 325: The Maya and Their World
▪ Anthropology/Sociology 327: Gender and Power in Latin America
▪ Art 209: Art and Architecture of the Ancient Near East and Egypt
▪ Art 218: Greek Art and Architecture
▪ Art 219: Roman Art and Architecture
▪ Art 265: Topics in Art (when subject matter pertains to Archaeology)
▪ Art 353: Art and Life in Pompeii
▪ Chemistry 107: Chemistry and Archaeology
▪ Ancient Mediterranean Studies 361: GIS and Mediterranean Archaeology
▪ Religious Studies 260: Archaeology and the Biblical World
▪ Religious Studies 276-277: Selected Topics in Hebrew/Bible/Old
Testament (when subject matter pertains to Archaeology)
▪ Religious Studies 285-286: Selected Topics in New Testament (when
subject matter pertains to Archaeology)
2. Some courses will be useful for archaeology students, even though they do not
speciﬁcally include an archaeological component. One of these courses may be
used to satisfy part of the requirement of three elective courses. The followingPrograms of Study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53
16 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 PM
courses are representative offerings that satisfy this requirement:  
▪ Chemistry 120 and 121L: Foundations of Chemistry with Lab
▪ Environmental Studies 111: Physical Geology
▪ Interdepartmental 225: Geographic Information Systems
3. Fieldwork. Each student in the minor will be required to complete an archaeological
ﬁeldwork experience in which they  will have a substantial engagement with
archaeological methods in the ﬁeld outside the Rhodes campus. There are several
ways to complete this requirement, some of which are credit-bearing, but others are
not. As with the College’s F11 requirement, students are not required to receive
academic credit. The ﬁeldwork component may be fulﬁlled by a course that counts as
one of the electives for the major. Students may enroll in one of the courses listed
below (Section 3a), or receive approval from the Chair of the Program for an
alternative experience (Section 3b).  
1. Students may enroll in one of the following:  
▪ Ancient Mediterranean Studies 315: Fieldwork in Material Culture
▪ Archaeology 120: Field Research in Environmental Archaeology
▪ Archaeology 450: Archaeological Field School
▪ Archaeology 460: Internship
▪ Art 375: Archaeological Fieldwork in Greece
2. Experiences other than those listed above must be approved by the chair  of the
Archaeology program in advance and will require a substantial essay, evaluated
by the chair of the program, which links the student’s experience with what
they  learned in the classroom. Experiences may include organized ﬁeldwork
projects with Rhodes faculty or staff oversight, or off-campus experiences with
signiﬁcant archaeological content as determined by the chair of the Archaeology
program. Students who elect Section 3b are still required to meet the minimum
of 20 credit hours and therefore must take an additional Archaeology elective
(Section 2a).
Printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/archaeology/requirements-minor-
archaeology
Art and Art HistoryPrograms of Study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53
17 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 PM
The Department of Art and Art History offers to the student, regardless of experience or
major, the opportunity to develop a sensitivity to visual language through studio work and
the study of the history of art.
Printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/art-and-art-history
Art and Art History: Faculty and Staff
Professors
David P. McCarthy . 1991. Chair.  B.A., Gettysburg College; Ph.D., University of Delaware.
(Modern, contemporary, and American art.)
A. Victor Coonin . 1995. B.A., Oberlin College; M.A., Syracuse University; Ph.D., Rutgers
University. (Medieval, Renaissance, and Baroque art history.)
Associate Professors
Miriam G. Clinton . 2015. B.A., Yale University; M.A., Ph.D., University of Pennsylvania
(Ancient Art.)
Erin Harmon . 2003. B.A., San Diego State University; M.F.A., Rhode Island School of
Design. (Painting and Drawing.)
Assistant Professors
Joel Parsons . 2014. B.A., Rhodes College; M.F.A., School of the Art Institute of Chicago.
(Sculpture and Performance.)
Karl Erickson . 2018. B.F.A., Wayne State University; M.F.A., California Institute of the
Arts. (Digital Arts and New Media.)
Raina Belleau . 2019. B.F.A., Minneapolis College of Art and Design; M.F.A., Rhode Island
School of Design. (Sculpture and Drawing.)
Director, Clough-Hanson Gallery
Joel Parsons . 2014. B.A., Rhodes College; M.F.A., School of the Art Institute of Chicago.
(Sculpture and Performance.)
Curator, Visual Resources Center
Rosanna Parrella Meindl . 2014. B.A., Lewis and Clark College; M.A., University of
Oregon (Asian Studies.)
StaffPrograms of Study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53
18 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 PM
Christie Arnold , Departmental Assistant.
Ethan McVay , Studio Technician. B.F.A., University of Memphis.
The Clough-Hanson Gallery, located in Clough Hall, brings to campus exhibitions of
contemporary art from September through March. In April and early May, the gallery hosts
two student exhibitions: the Juried Student Exhibit and the Senior Thesis Exhibit.
The Department of Art and Art History offers three majors to meet students’ particular
interests and post-graduate goals: Art, Art History, and a combined Art and Art History
sequence.
Printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/art-and-art-history/art-and-art-
history-faculty-and-staff
Requirements for a Major in Art
For the student interested in art as a vocation, for teaching, or for further study in graduate
school, this program of study is suggested. A total of forty (40) credits as follows:
Studio Art: two of the following 100-level courses: 101: Drawing, 102: Digital, 105:
Painting, 107: Sculpture, 116: Animation (not to be paired with 102).
Art 386: Experiments in Media & Methods, 485: Senior Seminar in Art, 486: Senior Thesis.
Art History: 152: Survey of Contemporary Art.
Four additional courses in the Department of Art and Art History including at least two 200
level and above studio classes and at least one 300 level studio course.
Printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/art-and-art-history/requirements-
major-art
Requirements for a Major in Art History
For those students interested in the study of art history with graduate school as a possible
goal, this program of study is suggested. A total of forty (40) credits as follows:  
Studio Art: any studio course
Art 151: Survey of Western Art
Art 152: Survey of Contemporary ArtPrograms of Study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53
19 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 PM
Art 218: Greek Art and Architecture
Art 223: Italian Renaissance Art
Art 242: Modern Art II
Three additional courses in art history at the 200 level or above
Art 485: Senior Seminar in Art History
Printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/art-and-art-history/requirements-
major-art-history
Requirements for a Major in Art and Art History
A total of ﬁfty-six (56) credits as follows:
Studio Art: Two of the following: 101: Drawing, 102: Digital, 105: Painting, 107: Sculpture,
116: Animation (may not to be paired with 102)
Art 386: Experiments in Media & Methods, Art 485: Senior Seminar, Art 486: Senior
Thesis; and Art History 485: Senior Seminar in Art History
Art History: 151: Survey of Western Art, 152: Survey of Contemporary Art, 218: Greek Art,
223: Italian Renaissance Art, 242: Modern Art II
An additional course in studio at the 200 level or above
Two additional courses in the department of Art and Art History at the 200 level or above
Printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/art-and-art-history/requirements-
major-art-and-art-history
Requirements for a Minor in Art
A total of twenty-eight (28) credits as follows:
Studio Art: two of the following: 101: Drawing, 102: Digital, 105: Painting, 107: Sculpture,
116: Animation (may not be paired with 102)
Art 386: Experiments in Media & Methods, 485: Senior Seminar in Art. Art History: 152:
Survey of Contemporary Art
Two studio art courses at 200-level or abovePrograms of Study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53
20 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 PM
Printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/art-and-art-history/requirements-
minor-art
Requirements for a Minor in Art History
A total of twenty-eight (28) credits as follows:
Studio Art: any studio course
Art 151: Survey of Western Art, 152: Survey of Contemporary Art
Three courses in art history at the 200 or 300 level, with one from each of the three areas
of concentration (Ancient, Medieval through Baroque, Modern)
Art 485: Senior Seminar in Art History
Printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/art-and-art-history/requirements-
minor-art-history
Honors in Art and Art History
1. In the spring of the junior year, an art major, in consultation with an appropriate
member of the art faculty, may write a proposal for honors work to be carried out  in
the senior year. The department must approve the proposal.
2. An overall grade of A- on the thesis or project itself is required for honors credit.
Printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/art-and-art-history/honors-art-
and-art-history
Requirements for a Major in Art History with
Concentration in Museum Studies
For those students interested in the study of Art History with graduate school in Museum
Studies or a career working with Galleries as a possible goal, this program of study is
suggested. A total of  forty (40) credits as follows:
Studio Art: any studio course.
Art 151: Survey of Western Art.Programs of Study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53
21 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 PM
Art 152: Survey of Contemporary Art.
Art 218: Greek Art and Architecture.
Art 223: Italian Renaissance Art.
Art 242: Modern Art II.
Art 260: Curation in Context.
Art 461: Museum/Gallery Internship. Four credit hours.
One additional course in art history.
Art 485: Senior Seminar in Art History.
Printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/art-and-art-history/requirements-
major-art-history-concentration-museum-studies
Asian Studies
The political, economic, and cultural importance of the nations of Asia grows every year
and the Asian Studies Program promotes the understanding of Asia’s historical, cultural,
political, and economic role in the world.  
Printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/asian-studies
Asian Studies: Program Committee
Chien-Kai Chen , Department of International Studies
Li Han , Department of Modern Languages and Literature
John C. Kaltner , Department of Religious Studies
Seok-Won Lee , Department of History
David Mason , Media Studies Program
Brooke Schedneck , Department of Religious Studies
Yinyin Xue , Department of Modern Languages and Literature
Shaolu Yu , Urban Studies Program, Chair
Lynn B. Zastoupil , Department of History
Printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/asian-studies/asian-studies-
program-committeePrograms of Study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53
22 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 PM
Requirements for a Minor in Asian Studies
A total of twenty (20) credits as follows:
1. One "Primary" Asian Studies course.
2. One "Secondary" Asian Studies course offered by a department other than that
which provided the course that fulﬁlled the "Primary" requirement.
3. Three additional, 200+ level, approved Asian Studies courses.
"Primary" Asian Studies Courses
History 105: Revolutions and Revolutionaries in Modern East Asia
History 105: World War II in Asia
History 105: The Mongol World Empire
History 105: The Two Koreas, Past and Present
Art 165: Survey of Asian Art
Chinese 206: Introduction to East Asian Cultures
Chinese 214: Introduction to Chinese Culture
Chinese 216: Asian Urbanization Through Cinema
History 282: Traditional China
History 283: Modern China
History 287: Traditional Japan
History 293: Ancient and Medieval India
International Studies 261: Government and Politics of China
International Studies 263: Comparative Political Economy of East Asia
Religious Studies 255: Living Religions of Southeast Asia
Religious Studies 258: Buddhism
Religious Studies 258: Buddhism in Thai Society
"Secondary" Asian Studies Courses
Chinese 205: Modern Chinese Literature in Translation
Chinese 215: Gender in Chinese Literature
Chinese 220: Contemporary Chinese Cinema
History 205: The Vietnam Wars
History 282: Traditional China
History 283: Modern China
History 287: Traditional JapanPrograms of Study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53
23 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 PM
History 288: Japan Since 1800
History 293: Ancient and Medieval India
History 294: Modern India
International Studies 261: Government and Politics of China
International Studies 262: China’s Foreign Policy
International Studies 263: Comparative Political Economy of East Asia
International Studies 264: China-Taiwan-US Relations
Religious Studies 255: Living Religions of Southeast Asia
Religious Studies 258: Buddhism
Religious Studies 258: Buddhism in Thai Society
Religious Studies 232: Religion, Women, and Social Change in Asia
Religious Studies 232: Religion and the Asian City
Religious Studies 301: Socially Engaged Buddhism
Additional Asian Studies Courses
History 385: Nomads of Inner Asia
History 391: Gandhi
History 481: Cold War in East Asia
Printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/asian-studies/requirements-
minor-asian-studies
Biochemistry and Molecular Biology
Biochemistry and Molecular Biology (BMB) is an interdisciplinary major that allows
students to study life at the molecular level under the guidance of faculty drawn from the
departments of Biology, Chemistry, and Mathematics & Computer Science.
Printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/biochemistry-and-molecular-
biology
Biochemistry and Molecular Biology: Program
Committee
Terry Hill , Department of Biology
Larryn Peterson , Department of Chemistry, Chair
Shana Stoddard , Department of Chemistry
Bayly Wheeler , Department of BiologyPrograms of Study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53
24 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 PM
Printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/biochemistry-and-molecular-
biology/biochemistry-and-molecular-biology-program
Honors in Biochemistry and Molecular Biology
1. Courses required: those listed for the B. S. degree in Biochemistry and Molecular
Biology as well as the Honors Tutorial (BMB 495 and BMB 496).
2. Permission of the Biochemistry and Molecular Biology Program Committee.
3. An original investigation of some problem in the area of Biochemistry and Molecular
Biology. This project is usually related to work being carried out by members of the
faculty afﬁliated with the Biochemistry and Molecular Biology Major. The project may
also be carried out off campus, with the careful guidance of a BMB faculty member
liaison for the project.
4. A credible thesis must be presented at the end of the project. The honors project and
thesis must be approved by the student’s honors committee, which should be
comprised of at least three members of the faculty, two afﬁliated with the
Biochemistry and Molecular Biology Major, and one from outside of the program.
Printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/biochemistry-and-molecular-
biology/honors-biochemistry-and-molecular-biology
Requirements for a Major in Biochemistry and
Molecular Biology Leading to the B.S. Degree
Courses required for the BMB major that are appropriate for the fall semester of the ﬁrst
year include Chemistry 120-125L and Biology 130-131L. Students considering taking both
Chemistry 120-125L and Biology 130-131L in the fall semester of the ﬁrst year should
consult a BMB advisor.
A total of sixty-two to sixty-three (62-63) credits as follows:
1. Chemistry 120-125L (Foundations in Chemistry), 211, 212-212L (Organic Chemistry
with lab), and 240-240L (Analytical Chemistry with lab)
2. Biology 130-131L (Biology I with lab) and Biology 140-141L (Biology II with lab)
3. Biology 307 (Cell Biology)
4. Biology 325-325L (Molecular Biology with lab)Programs of Study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53
25 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 PM
5. Chemistry 315 (Biochemistry)
6. BMB 310 (Methods in Biochemistry and Cell Biology)
7. BMB 485 or 486 (Senior Seminar)
8. Any one of the following: Computer Science 141 (Programming Fundamentals) OR
Math 122 (Integral Calculus) OR Math 214 (Math Modeling) OR one course in
probability and statistics. Courses that would be appropriate in the area of probability
and statistics include Math 111, Math 211, Psychology 211, Economics 290.
9. Two of the following courses; at least one must have a laboratory:
             a. Elective Courses with Laboratory
                       BIOL 204-204L (Animal Development with lab)
                       BIOL 301-301L (Microbiology with lab)
                       BIOL 304-304L (Genetics with lab) or BIOL 305-305L (Population
Genomics  with lab)
                       BIOL 376-376L (Molecular and Cellular Neuroscience with lab)
                       CHEM 325 (Computational Protein Design and Engineering)
                       CHEM 406 (Advanced Analytical Chemistry)
                       CHEM 411-411L (Medicinal & Computational Chemistry with lab)
                       BMB 451 or 452 (4 credits only may satisfy one elective; Research with an
afﬁliated faculty member or must be approved by the BMB committee)
             b. Elective Courses without a Laboratory
                        BIOL 330 (Virology/Immunology)
                        BIOL 380 (Topics in Biomedical Science)
                        CHEM 311 (Physical Chemistry)
                        CHEM 416 (Mechanisms of Drug Action)
                      
No more than one of the three courses listed in items #3-5 above may be transferred into
Rhodes from another institution to satisfy the requirements for the BMB major.
Students seeking a double major must have at least four  courses listed in items #3
through #9 for the BMB major that are not used to satisfy requirements for the other major.
In order for a student to have their B.S. degree in BMB accredited by the American
Society for Biochemistry and Molecular Biology (ASBMB), the student must complete the
major requirements and pass the ASBMB Certiﬁcation Exam. 
Printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/biochemistry-and-molecular-Programs of Study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53
26 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 PM
biology/requirements-major-biochemistry-and-molecular
Biology
As one of the most popular majors on campus, the Biology Department offers students
opportunities to learn about all levels of biology, as well as modern methods of research
and investigation. The study of biology prepares students for a wide range of career
options as students can choose to concentrate their studies in General Biology (GB),
Integrative Biology (IB), Environment, Ecology, and Behavior (EEB), and Biomedical
Sciences (BMS).
Printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/biology
Biology: Faculty and Staff
Professors
Michael D. Collins . 2010. B.S., University of Arizona; M.S., Florida State University;
Ph.D., University of Tennessee. (Ecology, ornithology, wildlife biology) 
Terry W. Hill . 1978. B.A., University of South Florida; M.S., Ph.D., University of Florida.
(Cell biology, microbiology, biology of fungi.)
David Kabelik . 2009. H.B.Sc., University of Toronto; Ph.D., Arizona State University.
(Neuroscience, endocrinology, physiology, animal behavior.)
Mary E. Miller . 2001. B.A., University of Tennessee at Knoxville; Ph.D., University of
Virginia. (Genetics, microbiology, cancer biology, cell biology.)
Associate Professors
Sarah Boyle . 2009. B.A., College of William and Mary; Ph.D., Arizona State University.
(Ecology, conservation biology, tropical ﬁeld biology.)
Kelly A. Dougherty.  2014. B.S., West Chester University; Ph.D., Thomas Jefferson
University. (Neuroscience, biophysics, neurophysiology.)
Jonathan Fitz Gerald . 2007. B.S., University of California at Irvine; Ph.D., University of
Chicago. (Plant biology, development.)
Elaine R. Frawley . 2016. B.A., Ph.D., Washington University in St. Louis. (Microbiology,
metabolism, bacterial physiology.)
Bayly S. Wheeler . 2015. B.S.E., University of Michigan; Ph.D., Duke University.
(Molecular biology, genetics, genomics, microbiology.)
Assistant ProfessorsPrograms of Study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53
27 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 PM
Kelly Diamond . 2022. B.S., University of Central Florida; M.S., Ph.D. Clemson University.
(morphology, machine learning, biomechanics)
Liam Hunt . 2022. B.S., Ph.D. The University of Melbourne, Australia. (Molecular Biology,
Skeletal Muscle Disease)
Kathryn A. LeCroy . 2023. B.S., Birmingham-Southern College; M.S. University of
Pittsburgh; Ph.D. University of Virginia. (Conservation Biology, wild bee diversity, disease
ecology, community science)
Sydney Moyo . 2020. B.S., Africa University; M.S. University of Zimbabwe; Rhodes
University, Ph.D. (Zoology, invertebrate biology, entomology.)
Tanushree Pandit . 2019. B.S., M.S., RTM Nagpur University; Ph.D., Umea University.
(Developmental neuroscience.)
Qian Shen . 2020. B.E, China Agricultural University; M.S., Mississippi State University;
Ph.D. Ohio State University (Microbiology, Fungal pathogenesis.)
Visiting Assistant Professors
James Engman . 2023. B.S. Kent State University; B.S., M.S., Western Illinois University;
Ph.D. University of Cincinnati.  
Alix Matthews . 2023. B.S. Rhodes College; M.S., Ph.D. Arkansas State University.
Staff
Tangela Allgood . 2022. Biology Department Administrative Assistant.
Jordy Gentry . 2021. Biology Department Lab Supervisor for The Frazier Jelke Science
Center. B.S., University of Memphis.
Justin A. Porter . 2017. Biology Department Lab Manager for Robertson Hall. B.S., M.S.,
University of Georgia.
Printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/biology/biology-faculty-and-staff
Requirements for Major in Biology Leading to the B.S.
Degree
Requirements for Major in Biology Leading to the B.S. Degree
A total of ﬁfty-six to ﬁfty-nine (56-59) credits as follows:
1. BIOL 130-131L (Biology I with laboratory) and BIOL 140-141L (Biology II with
laboratory).Programs of Study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53
28 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 PM
2. CHEM 120-125L (Foundations of Chemistry with laboratory) and CHEM 211 (Organic
Chemistry I).
3. One statistics course from the following list:
ECON 290 (Statistical Analysis for Economics and Business)
MATH 111 (Applied Statistics for Liberal Arts)
MATH 211 (Applied Statistics for the Formal and Natural Sciences)
PSYC 211 (Statistical Methods).
4. One computational course from the following list:
COMP 141 (Computer Science I: Programming Fundamentals) or above
INTD 225 (Geographic Information Systems [GIS])
MATH 115 (Applied Calculus)
MATH 122 (Integral Calculus)
MATH 214 (Discrete Mathematical Modeling with Biological Applications).
5. BIOL 485 or 486 (Senior Seminar).
6. Six upper-level courses (300 level or above) deﬁned by concentration areas. At least
four of the six upper level courses required must have an associated lab experience.  
Of the four required lab experiences, three of them must be chosen from the
appropriate designated concentration courses. Four credits of BIOL 451 or 452
(Research in Biology) combined can satisfy one upper-level course with lab
requirement.  
Normally, at least four of the six upper level courses used to satisfy these requirements
must be taken within the Biology Department at Rhodes.   Courses taught outside the
department that can satisfy upper level course requirements for the Biology major, subject
to the limit indicated above, include certain courses approved by the Department Chair for
transfer credit and the following:
CHEM 315 (Biochemistry); with BMB 310 (Methods in Biochemistry and Cell Biology) may
satisfy a course with lab requirement, CHEM 416 (Mechanisms of Drug Action), and
NEUR 270 (Neuroscience).  
Courses taught outside the Department may also be available through the Woods Hole
Semester in Environmental Sciences Program: ENVS 260 (Aquatic Ecosystem Analysis),
ENVS 270 (Terrestrial Ecosystem Analysis), and BIOL 280 (Microbial Methods in
Ecology). 
Additional courses can be taken through our partnership with the Gulf Coast Research
Laboratory including Marine Biology, Barrier Island Ecology, Marine Ichthyology, Marine
Mammalogy, Marine Invertebrate Zoology, Coastal Herpetology, and Parasites of Marine
Animals. Offerings change each year. In addition to month-long summer courses, some
are available as mini-courses during January and May. Students interested in eitherPrograms of Study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53
29 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 PM
program should contact the Biology Department for details.
7. Each student will choose only one of the following four concentrations in the Biology
major: ‘General Biology’, ‘Integrative Biology’, ‘Ecology, Evolution, Behavior’ or
‘Biomedical Sciences’.   
The Biology concentrations and associated class options:
General Biology (BIOL:GB)  
Upper level Biology course requirements:  Six upper level Biology courses; at least four
must have an associated lab.
Integrative Biology (BIOL:IB)
Upper level Biology course requirements: Six of the following upper level Biology courses
including four courses with lab; at least one course must be taken from each of the
following three categories; at least one lab requirement must come from each category.
1. Genetics, Cells, and Molecules
BIOL 304: Genetics with Lab
BIOL 301: Microbiology with Lab
BIOL 305: Population Genomics with Lab
BIOL 307: Cell Biology
BIOL 325: Molecular Biology with Lab
BIOL 330: Virology/Immunology
BIOL 365: Advanced Topics in Biology (depends on topic)
BIOL 376: Molecular and Cellular Neuroscience with Lab
BIOL 380: Topics in Biomedical Science
CHEM 315: Biochemistry
CHEM 416: Mechanisms of Drug Action
2. Development, Physiology, AnatomyPrograms of Study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53
30 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 PM
BIOL 302: Parasitology
BIOL 308: Mycology with Lab
BIOL 350: Comparative Vertebrate Morphology with Lab
BIOL 340: Animal Physiology with Lab
BIOL 355: Animal Development with Lab
BIOL 360: Histology with Lab
BIOL 365: Advanced Topics in Biology (depends on topic)
BIOL 375: Neuroendocrinology with Lab
BIOL 377: Developmental Neuroscience with Lab
NEUR 270: Neuroscience
3. Ecology and  Evolution
BIOL 300: Evolution with Lab
BIOL 309: The Science of Climate Change
BIOL 311: Invertebrate Biology with lab
BIOL 312: Environmental Issues in Southern Africa
BIOL 314: Environmental Field Study in Namibia
BIOL 315: Ecology with Lab
BIOL 316: Freshwater Ecology with Lab
BIOL 318: Entomology with Lab
BIOL 320: Conservation Biology with Lab
BIOL 321: Animal Behavior with Lab
BIOL 322: Plant Diversity & Evolution with Lab
BIOL 345: Ornithology with LabPrograms of Study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53
31 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 PM
BIOL 348: Wildlife Biology with Lab
BIOL 365: Advanced Topics in Biology (depends on topic)
ENVS 260: Aquatic Ecosystem (Woods Hole)
ENVS 270: Terrestrial Ecosystem (Woods Hole)
Ecology, Evolution, Behavior (BIOL:EEB)
Upper level Biology course requirements: Six upper level Biology courses; at least four
must come from the following list.   At least three of the four lab requirements must come
from this category. Up to two courses may be taken from additional upper level Biology
(300 or above) course offerings .
BIOL 300: Evolution with Lab
BIOL 302: Parasitology
BIOL 304: Genetics with Lab
BIOL 308: Mycology with Lab
BIOL 309: The Science of Climate Change
BIOL 311: Invertebrate Biology with Lab
BIOL 312: Environmental Issues in Southern Africa
BIOL 314: Environmental Field Study in Namibia
BIOL 315: Ecology with Lab
BIOL 316: Freshwater Ecology with Lab
BIOL 318: Entomology with Lab
BIOL 320: Conservation Biology with Lab
BIOL 321: Animal Behavior with Lab
BIOL 322: Plant Diversity & Evolution with Lab
BIOL 345: Ornithology with LabPrograms of Study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53
32 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 PM
BIOL 348: Wildlife Biology with Lab
BIOL 350: Comparative Vertebrate Morphology with Lab
BIOL 365: Advanced Topics in Biology (depends on topic)
ENVS 260: Aquatic Ecosystem (Woods Hole)
ENVS 270: Terrestrial Ecosystem (Woods Hole)
Biomedical Science (BIOL:BMS)
Upper level Biology course requirements: Six upper level Biology courses; at least four
must come from the following list.   At least three of the four lab requirements must come
from this category. Up to two courses may be taken from additional upper level Biology
(300 level or above) course offerings .
BIOL 300: Evolution with Lab
BIOL 301: Microbiology with Lab
BIOL 302: Parasitology
BIOL 304: Genetics with Lab
BIOL 305: Population Genomics with Lab
BIOL 307: Cell Biology
BIOL 308: Mycology with Lab
BIOL 325: Molecular Biology with Lab
BIOL 330: Virology/Immunology
BIOL 340: Animal Physiology with Lab
BIOL 350: Comparative Vertebrate Morphology with Lab
BIOL 355: Animal Development with Lab
BIOL 360: Histology with LabPrograms of Study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53
33 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 PM
BIOL 365: Advanced Topics in Biology (depends on topic)
BIOL 375: Neuroendocrinology with Lab
BIOL 376: Molecular and Cellular Neuroscience with Lab
BIOL 377: Developmental Neuroscience with Lab
BIOL 380: Topics in Biomedical Science
NEUR 270: Neuroscience
CHEM 315: Biochemistry
CHEM 416: Mechanisms of Drug Action
Satisfying the prerequisites for courses is the student’s responsibility; however, in special
circumstances, students with advance permission of the instructor may enroll in a course
without meeting prerequisites.
Courses and accompanying laboratories of the same name are linked co-requisites and
must be taken together unless approved by petition to the department. Unless otherwise
noted, courses meet under the standard class schedule and laboratories meet for a three-
hour period; laboratories also often require further project work outside the scheduled lab
time.
Students seeking a double major must have at least four upper-level courses for the
Biology major that are not used to satisfy requirements for the other major.
Printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/biology/requirements-major-
biology-leading-bs-degree
Major Essay
When declaring a major in Biology, students must submit an essay electronically for
approval by their major advisor.   This essay should be 300 words or less and should
include:
1. a statement of your goals in pursuing a biology major
2. a statement of your goals in pursuing a speciﬁc concentration in biology
3. what areas of biology represent your greatest interestsPrograms of Study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53
34 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 PM
4. possible links between biology coursework and other courses taken or to be taken
5. what other areas of biology will help you to become more well-rounded in the ﬁeld of
biology.
Printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/biology/major-essay
Honors in Biology
1. Courses required: those listed for the B. S. degree with a major in Biology as well as
the Biology Honors Tutorial (BIOL 495 and 496).
2. Students seeking to do Honors research must have a minimum GPA of 3.5
(cumulative and in the major) at the time of application and be on track to graduate at
the end of the academic year in which the Honors research is carried out.
3. An original investigation of some problem in the area of biology, usually related to
research being carried out by a member of the Biology Department, is required. The
Honors research may be conducted outside of the department, with department
approval and the careful guidance of a Biology faculty member liaison for the project.
4. A creditable thesis must be presented at the end of the project. The honors project
and thesis must be approved by the student’s Honors committee and the project
must follow the department and college guidelines and schedule for Honors work. In
addition, the Honors candidate should present the work publically at a scientiﬁc
meeting on- or off-campus.
Students interested in Honors research should consult with their faculty research
supervisor at Rhodes.
Printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/biology/honors-biology
Business
The Business Department teaches students both theories and methods, as well as the
broader social and historical perspectives of business practices in accounting, ﬁnance,
marketing, and management.
Printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/business
Business: Faculty and StaffPrograms of Study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53
35 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 PM
Business: Faculty and Staff
ASSOCIATE PROFESSORS
Wendy Bailey.  2021. B.A., Washington University St Louis; M.B.A., University of Colorado
Boulder; and Ph.D., University of Pittsburgh (Accounting)
Dee Birnbaum.  1991. B.A., State University of New York at Stony Brook; M.B.A., Baruch
College; M. Phil. and Ph.D., City University of New York. (General management, human
resource management)
Kayla D. Booker.  2015. Co-Director, M.S. in Accounting Program. B.B.A., M.P.A., and
Ph.D., Jackson State University. CPA. (Accountancy)
Sujan M. Dan.  2013. B.Tech, Kerala University, India; M.S. and Ph.D., Texas A&M
University. (Marketing)
Denis Khantimirov.  2015. B.A., North Ossetian State University, Russia; M.B.A.,
University of Nevada, Las Vegas; Ph.D., Old Dominion University. (Marketing) 
Kelly P. Weeks.  2015. B.A., Rhodes College; M.A. and Ph.D.,  University of Memphis.
(Management)
Andrey Zagorchev.  2013. Co-Director, M.S. in Accounting Program.  B.S., M.S., Plovdiv
University, Bulgaria; M.B.A., Wright State University; Ph.D., Lehigh University. (Finance)
ASSISTANT PROFESSORS
Jade O. Planchon.  2012. B.A., Rhodes College; M.B.A., Columbia University; 2018.
Ph.D., University of Memphis. (Finance)
PART-TIME ASSISTANT PROFESSORS
Milton L. Lovell.  2003. B.S. and  J.D., University of Mississippi. LL.M., New York
University School of Law. CFO and General Counsel, NexAir, LLC. (Accountancy,
taxation)
INSTRUCTORS
Sarah A. Cate.  B.A., Hendrix College; M.S. University of Memphis. (Accountancy).
PART-TIME INSTRUCTORSPrograms of Study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53
36 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 PM
David Hopkins. 2022. B.P.A., Mississippi State University. (Accounting).
Steve Zatechka.  2018. B.S. and M.S., University of Nebraska-Lincoln; M.B.A., University
of Memphis; Ph.D., University of Nebraska Medical Center; Chief Science Ofﬁcer, US
Biologic. (Entrepreneurship).
ENTREPRENEUR IN RESIDENCE
Eric Mathews.  2023. B.S., Rhodes College, M.S., University of Memphis.
(Entrepreneurship).
STAFF
Hannah Guess.  2020. Departmental Assistant. B.A. and M.A., University of Memphis.
CURRICULUM
The Department of Business offers both a major and minor in Business. Within the major,
students can elect to take courses in Accounting, Finance, Marketing, and Management.
Master of Science in Accounting. A more concentrated study of accounting may be
undertaken in the M.S. in Accounting Program offered by the Department of Business.
Students who have completed an undergraduate degree in the Department of Business
and/or have taken the appropriate accounting courses can ﬁnish the requirements of the
M.S. in Accounting degree in two additional semesters of study.
Printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/business/business-faculty-and-
staff
Honors in Business
Honors in Business
1. Meet requirements for a major in  Business.
2. Business 495-496.
3. A substantial research paper in an area of special interest to the candidate.
4. An oral examination on the research paper.
All honors students must meet eligibility criteria established for the Honors Program.Programs of Study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53
37 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 PM
Printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/business/honors-business
Requirements for a Major in Business
Requirements for a Major in Business
A total of forty-six (46 ) credits as follows:
1.  Business 241 Financial Accounting, 243 Managerial Accounting, 351 Corporate
Financial Management, 361 Management of Organizations, 371 Marketing Management,
486 Senior  Seminar in Business.
2.  Economics 100 Introduction to Economics.
3.  Economics 290 Statistical Analysis for Economics OR Mathematics 211 Applied
Statistics for the Formal & Natural Sciences.
4.  Math 115 Applied Calculus, 116 Calculus with Business Applications or 122 Integral
Calculus.
5.  Two courses from one of the following areas and one course from one of the remaining
areas:
     a.   Accounting: Business 341 Intermediate Accounting I, 342 Intermediate Accounting
II.
     b.   Finance: Business 452 Cases in Managerial Finance, 454 International Financial
Management/Financial Analytics.
     c.   Management: Business 463 International Management, 466 Personnel and Human
Resource Management, 467 Diversity and Inclusion in the Workplace.
     d.   Marketing: Business 472 Marketing Analytics and Metrics  , 473 International
Marketing, 474 Services Marketing.
     e.   Business 481 Business Ethics and Social Responsibility.
     f.  Business 483 Advanced International Business Cases.
     g.   Business 484 Social Impact of Business in South Africa.
6.  Recommended: Business 460 Internship; Philosophy 210 Logic; Computer Science
141 Computer Science I, 142 Computer Science II; Media Studies 240 Public Speaking.Programs of Study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53
38 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 PM
Printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/business/requirements-major-
business
Requirements for a Minor in Business
A total of twenty-eight (28) credit hours as follows:
1. Business 241 Financial Accounting, 243 Managerial Accounting, 351 Corporate
Financial Management, 361 Management of Organizations, 371 Marketing Management.
2. Economics 100 Introduction to Economics.
3. Economics 290 Statistical Analysis for Economics and Business OR Mathematics 211
Applied Statistics for the Formal & Natural Sciences.
Printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/business/requirements-minor-
business
Chemistry
The Chemistry Department prepares students for careers in the chemical sciences,
forensics, health professions, industry, research, and STEM education. Students will
receive training in modern, interdisciplinary chemistry and instrumentation, as well as
develop essential skills for further education in chemical, medical, engineering, law, and
other health-related ﬁelds. 
The Department is certiﬁed by the American Chemical Society as complying with its
requirements for the professional training of chemists.
Printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/chemistry
Chemistry: Faculty and Staff
Professors
Loretta Jackson-Hayes.  2003. James Daughdrill Professor in the Natural Sciences. B.S.,
Tougaloo College; Ph.D., University of Tennessee. (Pharmacology.)Programs of Study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53
39 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 PM
Darlene M. Loprete.  1990. Chair. B.A., Clark University; Ph.D., University of Rhode
Island. (Biochemistry.)
Jon Russ.  2004. B.S., Corpus Christi State University; Ph.D., Texas A&M University.
(Analytical Chemistry.)
Professor Emeritus
David Y. Jeter.  1973. B.S., Texas A&M University-Commerce; Ph.D., University of North
Carolina, Chapel Hill. (Inorganic Chemistry.)
Associate Professors
William Eckenhoff.  2015. B.S., Allegheny College; Ph.D. Duquesne University (Inorganic
Chemistry).
Larryn W. Peterson.  2011. B.A., Carroll College; Ph.D., University of Southern California.
(Organic Chemistry.) 
Roberto de la Salud Bea.  2010. B.S. and M.S., University of Valencia, Spain. Ph.D.,
University of Nebraska. (Organic Chemistry.)                                                                        
                                      
Shana Stoddard.  2015. B.S., Prairie View A&M University; M.Ed., Freed-Hardeman
University; Ph.D., University of Mississippi. (Biochemistry.)
Assistant Professors
Kimberly Brien. 2012. B.S., Texas Lutheran University; M.S., Baylor University;
Ph.D.,Texas Christian University. (Organic Chemistry.)
Kavita Gaur. 2022. B.S., Agra, U.P., India; M.S., Agra, U.P., India; Ph.D., University of
Puerto Rico (Bioinorganic Chemistry.)                                                                                    
                                               
Dana Horgen.  2014. B.S., Saint Olaf College; Ph.D., Baylor University (Organic
Chemistry.)          
Dhammika S. Muesse.  2007. B.S. and M.S., University of Colombo; Ph.D., University of
Memphis. (Analytical Chemistry.)                                                                                          
                                       
Miguel Angel Méndez Polanco.  2021. BSc, Universidad Autónoma de Puebla (México);
Ph.D., University of Pennsylvania. (Physical Chemistry.)
Chemistry Instrument Technician and Chemical Safety Ofﬁcer    
                            
Karen Mosely.  B.S., University of Memphis; M.S. University of Memphis.
Printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/chemistry/chemistry-faculty-and-
staff
Honors in ChemistryPrograms of Study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53
40 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 PM
1. Courses listed for the B.S. degree. 
2. Chemistry 495 and 496 (eight credits minimum).
3. An original investigation of some problem in chemistry or biochemistry, usually
related to research being carried on by a member of the department, is required.
A thesis must be presented at the end of the project. The honors project and its
outcome must be approved by the student’s Honors Committee.
4. A public presentation on the honors work is required by the department.
Printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/chemistry/honors-chemistry
Requirements for Certiﬁcation by the American
Chemical Society
1. Chemistry 120/125L, 211, 212/212L, 240/240L, 311/312L, 315, 408/408L, 415.
2. At least 2 additional courses from the following list: 312, 406,  411/411L, 416.  
3. Physics 109-110 or 111-112; 113L-114L.
4. Mathematics 122. Students can start in 112 and then take 122.
5. At least four credits of research (Chemistry 451 and/or 452).
This major track may be of interest to students interested in attending graduate school
or employment in chemistry related ﬁelds. The track is designed by the American
Chemical Society (ACS) to provide students with lecture and laboratory experiences in the
ﬁve foundational areas of chemistry (analytical, biochemistry, inorganic, organic and
physical) in both breadth and depth.
Printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/chemistry/requirements-
certiﬁcation-american-chemical-society
Requirements for a Major in Chemistry Leading to the
B.S. Degree
1. Chemistry 120/125L, 211, 212/212L, 240/240L, 311/312L.
2. At least 3 additional courses from the following list: 206, 312, 315, 325, 406,
408/408L, 411/411L, 416, 422, 451-452 (total of four credits).Programs of Study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53
41 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 PM
3. Physics 109-110 or 111-112; 113L-114L.
4. Mathematics 122. Students can start in 112 and then take 122.
5. Chemistry 486.
Students interested in graduate school should consider taking the following courses:
Chemistry 315, 406, 408/408L, and 451-452.
Printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/chemistry/requirements-major-
chemistry-leading-bs-degree
Requirements for a Minor in Chemistry
Six courses as follows:
1. 120/125L, 211, 212/212L, 240/240L.
2. Two additional Chemistry courses of which one must be at the 200-level or above
and the other must be 300-level or above. Both courses must be at least 4-credits.  
Science is increasingly interdisciplinary. Students who wish to pursue careers and/or
further study in biology, neuroscience, environmental science, physics or other sciences
may see the need to have a ﬁrm background in chemistry as well. By declaring a minor,
students may work with a minor advisor who will help these students ﬁnd and deﬁne a
course of study that can complement their future plans. Students looking to pursue a
career in patent or intellectual property or patent law can also beneﬁt by having a
chemistry minor.
Printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/chemistry/requirements-minor-
chemistry
Requirements for a Pre-Engineering Certiﬁcate
Chemistry majors planning for graduate work and/or careers in chemical engineering can
earn the Pre-Engineering Certiﬁcate from Rhodes by completing the following courses.  
1. Physics 111-112* and 220.
2. Physics 304 or 307.
3. Mathematics 223 and 251.Programs of Study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53
42 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 PM
4. Computer Science 141.
5. One approved experiential component, such as: 4 credits of research*, summer
research or an engineering-related internship.
*also fulﬁlls major requirements
Note: students interested in pursuing entry level chemical or biomedical engineering work
immediately after college may wish to consider the dual degree options through the
academic partnerships for engineering at Rhodes.  https://catalog.rhodes.edu/educational-
program/academic-partnerships 
Printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/chemistry/requirements-pre-
engineering-certiﬁcate
Requirements for a major in Chemistry, Drug Design
track
1. Chemistry 120/125L, 211, 212/212L, 240/240L,  311/312L, 315, 411/411L,  415, 416.  
2. Mathematics 122. Students can start in 112 and then take 122.
3. Physics 109-110 or 111-112; 113L-114L.
This major track may be of interest to students pursuing  careers in pharmaceutical or
medicinal chemistry, medicine, pharmacy, or other health professions.  Research
opportunities in related areas may be available to students in the Chemistry Department
who want to pursue this major track.
Printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/chemistry/requirements-major-
chemistry-drug-design-track
Computer Science
The Department of Computer Science offers students numerous opportunities to develop
quantitative reasoning, critical-thinking, problem-solving, and communication skills through
its curriculum and extracurricular activities.
Printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/computer-science
Computer Science: Faculty and StaffPrograms of Study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53
43 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 PM
Professors
Betsy Williams Sanders . 2007. B.S., Millsaps College; M.S. and Ph.D., Vanderbilt
University. (Computer graphics and animation.)
Associate Professors
Phillip B. Kirlin . 2012. B.S., University of Maryland; M.S. and Ph.D., University of
Massachusetts Amherst. (Artiﬁcial intelligence, machine learning, music informatics.)
D. Brian Larkins . 2015. B.S., M.S., Ph.D., The Ohio State University. (Parallel
programming, programming languages, network security.)
Catherine E. Welsh . 2013. B.S., Ursinus College; M.S., Lehigh University; Ph.D.,
University of North Carolina-Chapel Hill. (Bioinformatics, computational genetics.)
Assistant Professors
Marion Lang.  2019.  B.S., Indiana University of Pennsylvania; M.S., Ph.D., The Ohio State
University. (speciﬁcation and veriﬁcation of distributed systems, large-scale distributed
data processing and analytics systems.)
Matthew Superdock. 2021. B.S., Princeton University; Ph.D., Carnegie Mellon
University.   (type theory, formal veriﬁcation, and automated reasoning)
Printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/computer-science/computer-
science-faculty-and-staff
Honors in Computer Science
Requirements:
1. Fulﬁllment of the requirements for the major.
2. Honors Tutorial: 495 and 496.
3. Approval by the department is required.Programs of Study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53
44 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 PM
Students should consult with a faculty member about their intentions to pursue an honors
project before the end of their Junior year.
Printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/computer-science/honors-
computer-science
Planning a Major
Students considering a major in Computer Science should contact the Chair or another
member of the department as early as possible to ensure progress is being made toward
the major. More information can be found at the department’s web site:
www.rhodes.edu/mathcs .
For reasonable progress toward a major in Computer Science, a student should begin the
introductory programming sequence (Computer Science 141, 142, 241) in the ﬁrst year. In
the second year, a student should complete Computer Science 172 in fall and Computer
Science 231 in the spring. The Mathematics requirements should be completed by the
end of the third year.
Printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/computer-science/planning-major
Requirements for a Major in Computer Science
A total of ﬁfty-six (56) credits as follows:
1. Computer Science 141, 142, 172, 231, 241, 251, 485, and 486.
2. One of Mathematics 112, 115, 116, 122, 211, 214, 223
3. At least one course from each of the three following groups:
1. Theory:   Computer Science 350, 355
2. Systems: Computer Science 315, 330, 331, 340, 360, 380, 385
3. Applications:  Computer Science 320, 325, 342, 345, 370, 372 
4. Two additional four-credit computer science courses numbered above 300, excluding
460, 495, and 496.
Printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/computer-science/requirements-
major-computer-sciencePrograms of Study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53
45 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 PM
Requirements for a Minor in Computer Science
A total of twenty-four (24) credits as follows:
1. Computer Science 141, 142, 172, 241, and 251.
2. One additional four-credit computer science course numbered above 300.
Printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/computer-science/requirements-
minor-computer-science
Economics
The Economics Department, through its emphasis on logicaland quantitative analysis and
communication skills, servesas prepares students interested in careers in business, law,
medicine, government, non-proﬁts, and international relations, as well as in academic
roles. 
Printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/economics
Economics: Faculty and Staff
PROFESSORS
Marshall K. Gramm.  2000. Chair. B.A., Rice University; Ph.D., Texas A & M University.
(Applied microeconomics)
C. Nicholas McKinney.  2003. Robert D. McCallum Professor of Economics. B.A., B.S.,
Centenary College of Louisiana; Ph.D., Texas A & M University. (Experimental economics,
applied microeconomics)
ASSOCIATE PROFESSOR
Courtney A. Collins.  2013. B.A., Rhodes College; Ph.D., Texas A&M University. (Applied
economics)
Teresa Beckham Gramm.  1999. B.A., Agnes Scott College; Ph.D., University of North
Carolina-Chapel Hill. (International economics)
ASSISTANT PROFESSORS
Shameel Ahmad.  2019. B.A., Stanford University; M.Sc. London School of Economics;
M.A., M.Phil., Ph.D., Yale University. (Economic History)
Bruno D. Badia.  2015. B.A., Federal University of Rio Grande do Sul, Brazil; M.A.,Programs of Study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53
46 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 PM
Federal University of Minas Gerais, Brazil; Ph.D., Stony Brook University. (Industrial
organization, game theory, applied microeconomics)
Jaqueline Oliveira.  2016. B.A., Federal University of Minas Gerais, Brazil; M.Sc.,
University of Sao Paulo, Brazil; M.A., M.Phil., Ph.D., Yale University. (Development, labor,
family and urban economics)
STAFF
Hannah Guess. 2020. Departmental Assistant. B.A. and M.A., University of Memphis.
Printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/economics/economics-faculty-
and-staff
Honors in Economics
1. Requirements for a major in Economics.
2. Economics 495-496 (instead of Economics 486).
3. A substantial research paper in an area of special interest to the candidate.
4. An oral examination on the research paper.
All honors students must meet eligibility criteria established for the Honors Program.
Printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/economics/honors-economics
Requirements for a Major in Economics
A total of forty-eight (48) credits as follows:
1. Economics 100, 201, 202, 290, 420, 486.
2. Twenty additional credits in Economics not including Internship (Econ 460, 461).
3. Mathematics 115, 116 or 122.  
4. Students planning on attending graduate school should consider the Mathematics
and Economics interdisciplinary major.
In addition, interdisciplinary majors are offered in:
• Economics and  Business.Programs of Study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53
47 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 PM
• Economics and International Studies.
• Mathematics and Economics.
• Philosophy, Politics and Economics (an interdisciplinary program.)
Printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/economics/requirements-major-
economics
Requirements for a Minor in Economics
A total of twenty (20) credits in Economics as follows:
1. Economics 100, 201, 202.
2. Eight additional credits in Economics not including Internship (Econ 460, 461).
Printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/economics/requirements-minor-
economics
Educational Studies
Program Vision 
Educational Studies at Rhodes College strives to advance justice, democracy, and equity
in underserved public schools, particularly in Memphis, through our interdisciplinary
programs, partnerships, scholarship, and advocacy.
Program Mission
Educational Studies and the educators and advocates we prepare engage theory and
research while embedded in our schools and communities in order to promote
understandings of problems and strategies for change that transform schools in the
service of justice.
Printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/educational-studies
Background Checks (Clinical Field Experiences)Programs of Study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53
48 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 PM
Tennessee Code Annotated (TCA 49-5-5610) requires all students entering state
approved educator preparation programs to submit the result of a criminal background
check to the institution. In compliance with this requirement, Memphis Shelby County
Schools (MSCS) requires criminal background checks for Rhodes College students who
are placed in their schools for clinical experiences and internships with P – 12 students.
The results will be sent to a Rhodes College representative. For more information, contact
the Teacher Licensure Coordinator, Dr. Joseph Kelly (kellyj@rhodes.edu).
Printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/educational-studies/background-
checks-clinical-ﬁeld-experiences
Educational Studies: Faculty and Staff
Professors
Natalie K. Person . 1994. Chair. B.A.  University of Mississippi; M.S. and Ph.D.  University
of Memphis. (Cognitive psychology: learning technologies; educational psychology)
Associate Professors
Zachary Casey . 2014. B.A.E. and M.A.  Arizona State University; Ph.D.  University of
Minnesota. (Curriculum and Instruction,  Multicultural Education, Critical Pedagogy,
Teacher Education)
Cara Djonko-Moore . 2018. B.A. Northwestern University, M.A. University of
Pennsylvania, Ph.D. Temple University  (Early Childhood, Culturally Responsive
Pedagogy)
Laura Taylor . 2017. B.S. Cornell University; M.Ed. University of Saint Thomas; Ph.D.
University of Texas at Austin. (Literacy Teaching and Learning; Critical Literacies;
Educational Policy)
Assistant Professors
Laura Kelly . 2018. B.S. Freed-Hardeman  University; M.Ed. Western Governors
University; Ph.D. Arizona State University. (Elementary Literacy, Bilingual Education)
Staff
Joseph Kelly . 2018. Teacher Licensure Coordinator. B.A. Freed-Hardeman University;
M.Div. Harding School of Theology; Ph.D. Southern Seminary.  
Amber Lewis.  Administrative Assistant.Programs of Study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53
49 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 PM
Printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/educational-studies/educational-
studies-faculty-and-staff
How to Declare a Major
To declare a major in Educational Studies major, students should choose a professor in
Educational Studies to be their major advisor. The advisor will approve the major essay,
help students complete the Degree Requirements Worksheet, and sign the Declaration of
Major form.
Once students have met with their major advisor, they are required to submit:
1. Two copies of the Declaration of Major form, ﬁling one copy with the program chair
and one copy with the Registrar. (Available from the Registrar's ofﬁce or on Rhodes
Express online.)
2. The Degree Requirements Worksheet, ﬁling one copy with the program chair and
one copy with the Registrar. (Available from the Registrar's ofﬁce or on Rhodes
Express online.)
3. The ﬁnal, advisor approved, major essay. Email the essay as a Word document
to Major_E.ymfk84k3izod0rl9@u.box.com  so that it can be archived. The ﬁle name
for the essay should be as follows: student’s last name, student’s ﬁrst name, and
graduation year.
NOTE: Secondary licensure students will double major and will have two major advisors,
one in Educational Studies and the other in their content area major.
Printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/educational-studies/how-declare-
major
Licensure to Teach
Students can  earn elementary (grades K - 5) or secondary licensure (grades 6 -12) within
the Teaching and Learning track of the Educational Studies major. The licensure program
prepares students to teach in either elementary schools or middle and/or high schools in
one of thirteen endorsement areas: American Government, English, History, Mathematics,
Biology, Chemistry, Physics, Spanish, French, German, Latin, Russian, and Chinese. The
course of study for secondary licensure students is designed with guidance from faculty
members in the discipline in which the student is being certiﬁed as well as with faculty in
the Educational Studies Program. All secondary licensure candidates are required to
double major in Educational Studies and their endorsement discipline.  ElementaryPrograms of Study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53
50 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 PM
licensure does not require a double major. Students who are interested in teacher
licensure should contact our Teacher Licensure Coordinator in the early stages of the
academic planning process. All licensure information including applications  to the Rhodes
College Teacher Licensure Program can be found on the program's website.
Licensure to teach is a function of state governments. Institutions and agencies that offer
licensure are approved by their respective state departments and boards of education.
Tennessee licensure is transferable to all 50 states; some states may require additional
exams or content. A guide to certiﬁcation reciprocity is available through Certiﬁcation
Map.  https://certiﬁcationmap.com/states/reciprocity-disclaimer/  Students wishing to teach
in other states are advised to review the licensure requirements on the appropriate state's
department of education website.
Printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/educational-studies/licensure-
teach
Major Essay
When declaring a major in Educational Studies, students must complete an essay in
which they address each of the questions in their respective track. The essay should be at
least two paragraphs, with one paragraph dedicated to each question.
Teaching and Learning Track
• What are the most important things for teachers and school personnel to be
knowledgeable about in order to ensure the success of all of their students? 
• How will your work in this major equip you with this knowledge and experience?
Policy and Social Change Track
[select one of the following questions]
• Option 1: What roles can programs and activities for youth, outside of schools, play
in creating a more democratic, participatory, humanizing society?  How will your work
in this major equip you with this knowledge and experience?
• Option 2: How can educational policy create more opportunities for more students to
be successful learners within and beyond their experience(s) in schools? How willPrograms of Study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53
51 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 PM
your work in this major equip you with this knowledge and experience?
Students will electronically submit the ﬁnal, advisor approved, version of the essay as a
Word document by emailing it to  Major_E.ymfk84k3izod0rl9@u.box.com  so that it can be
archived. The ﬁle name for the essay should be as follows: student’s last name, student’s
ﬁrst name, and graduation year.
NOTE: Application to the Rhodes Teacher Licensure Program is a separate application
process. For information regarding admission in the licensure program, see
https://www.rhodes.edu/departments/education/licensure-teach .
Printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/educational-studies/major-essay
Requirements for a Major in Educational Studies
Students select one of two tracks: Teaching & Learning or Policy & Social Change.  All
students complete 5 Core Requirement courses and all requirements for their selected
track. A total of forty-four (44) credits is required a major with the Teaching & Learning
track  and a total of forty-ﬁve (45) credits is required for a major with the Policy & Social
Change track. 
Core Requirements  (5 courses, 20 credits)
1. Foundations of Education - EDUC 201 
2. Educational Psychology - EDUC 222
3. Philosophy, Policy, & Equity (two of the following):
1. Urban Education - EDUC 220
2. African American Experiences in U.S. Schools - EDUC 225
3. History of Education - EDUC 230
4. Urban Education Policy - EDUC 240 [only for Teaching & Learning track]
5. Philosophy of Education - EDUC 270
6. Race, Class, Gender, & Sexuality in Education - EDUC 320
7. Education & Immigration - EDUC 330
8. Social & Community Contexts of Education - EDUC 335Programs of Study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53
52 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 PM
9. Some sections of EDUC 265 (when appropriate)
4. Education Senior Seminar EDUC 485
Track Requirements
Track 1: Teaching and Learning  (24 credits)
1. Principles of Curriculum and Instruction - EDUC 355*
2. Educational Technologies - EDUC 300*
3. Reading, Writing, and Urban Schools - EDUC 310
4. Content Area Teaching Methods Course ( one of the following, according to the
student's curricular focus):
1. Elementary Literacies - EDUC 370*
2. Methods of Teaching Secondary STEM - EDUC 380*
3. Methods of Teaching Secondary Humanities - EDUC 390*
5. Inclusive Education - EDUC 410*
6. Clinical Field Experiences - EDUC 360 (4 credits) 
1. One credit must be taken co-requisite with each of the courses above marked
with * .
Track 2: Policy and Social Change (25 credits)
1. Urban Education Policy - EDUC 240
2. Qualitative Methods in the Social Sciences - EDUC 395*
3. Clinical Field Experience - EDUC 360 (1 credit; *co-requisite with EDUC 395)
4. One of the following: 
1. The City - ANSO 241 
2. Social Movements - ANSO 243
3. Introduction to Public Policy - PLAW 205
4. Urban Policy and Polities - PLAW 206Programs of Study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53
53 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 PM
5. Race and Ethnic Politics - PLAW 207
6. Black Political Thought - PLAW 230
7. Health Care Policy - PLAW 320
8. Community Psychology - PSYC 330
9. Nonproﬁts in the City - URBN 340
5. One additional 4-credit EDUC course 
6. Two additional 4-credit Educational Studies Electives - see list below
Teacher Licensure
Students completing an Educational Studies major on the Teaching and Learning track
can also pursue elementary or secondary teacher licensure. Teacher licensure requires
completion of additional requirements, including:  
1. edTPA Preparation - EDUC 450 (1 credit, taken co-requisite with 1 credit of EDUC
360; typically taken semester prior to EDUC 499)
2. Clinical Practice (Student Teaching) - EDUC 499 (16 credits; typically completed
either in the 8th semester or in a post-baccalaureate 9th semester)
Students pursuing secondary teacher licensure must double-major in the subject area
plan to teach (e.g., English; Biology). More information about teacher licensure can be
found on the Educational Studies micro-site  or by contacting Dr. Joseph Kelly, Teacher
Licensure Coordinator (kellyj@rhodes.edu).  
Educational Studies Elective Courses (Policy & Social Change Track)
• Gender and Society ANSO 231
• The City ANSO 241
• Social Movements ANSO 343
• Gender and Environment ANSO 273
• Race and Ethnicity in American Society ANSO 331
• Social Class in the United States ANSO 335
• Topics in ANSO 365 (when topics are relevant)
• Anthropology of Social Change ANSO 379
• Racism ANSO 391
• Sociology of Violence and Peace Making ANSO 392Programs of Study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53
54 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 PM
• Social Impact of Business in South Africa BUS 284
• Economics of Education ECON 265
• Teaching English as a Foreign Language EDUC 160/161
• Urban Education EDUC 220
• African American Experiences in Schools EDUC 225
• History of Education EDUC 230
• Topics in Education EDUC 265
• Philosophy of Education EDUC 270
• Reading, Writing, and Urban Schools EDUC 310
• Race, Class, Gender, & Sexuality in Education EDUC 320
• Education & Immigration EDUC 330
• Principles of Curriculum and Instruction EDUC 355
• Directed Research in Education EDUC 451
• Internship in Education EDUC 460
• Academic Writing - ENGL 290 (4 credits)
• Advanced Grammar ENGL 380
• Study in African American Literature ENGL 264
• African American Literature ENGL 364
• Advanced Topics in Film (when topics are relevant) ENGL 381 
• Junior Seminar Critical Theory ENGL 385
• Introductory Seminars in History (when topics are relevant) HIST 105 
• Selected Topics in History (when topics are relevant) HIST 205 
• The United States in the Twentieth Century HIST 233 
• African American History HIST 242 
• Civil Rights Movement HIST 243 
• History of Memphis HIST 248 
• Gender in the United States HIST 249
• Slavery in the United States HIST 342
• Civil Rights in Memphis HIST 345
• African American Activism HIST 447
• Government and Politics of Africa INTS 251
• Politics of Social Movements and Grassroots Organizing INTS 332 
• International Human Rights INTS 336
• Politics of Migration INTS 340
• Justice, Equality, and Liberty PHIL 225
• Philosophy of Race and Racism PHIL 220
• Introduction to Public Policy PLAW 205
• Urban Politics and Policy PLAW 206
• Race and Ethnic Politics PLAW 207Programs of Study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53
55 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 PM
• Black Political Thought PLAW 230
• Healthcare Policy PLAW 320
• Infant and Child Development PSYC 229
• Community Psychology PSYC 330
• Psychology of Gender and Sexuality  PSYC 280
• Social Issues in Ethical & Religious Perspective RELS 232
• Theologies of Liberation RELS 259
• Health Equity Internship RELS 460
• Intro to Urban Studies URBN 201
• Social Statistics URBN 220 
• Urban Geography URBN 230 
• Principles of Public Health  URBN 235 
• Intercultural Knowledge & Competence URBN 250 
• Special Topics in Urban Studies (when topics are relevant) URBN 265
• Urban Field Research URBN 362
• Research Methods in Urban Studies URBN 385
Printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/educational-studies
/requirements-major-educational-studies
Requirements for a Minor in Educational Studies
The Minor in Educational Studies requires 24 credits:
1. EDUC 201.
2. Twenty credits selected from the following courses: any EDUC course; ECON 295 (2
credits); PSYC 229, 230, 250, 330; URBN 250.
Printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/educational-studies
/requirements-minor-educational-studies
English
From the classics to the contemporary, the Department of English offers Rhodes students
a wide array of courses in literature, creative writing and ﬁlm. Students develop the ability
to analyze and create with an emphasis on establishing strong writing skills.  
Printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/englishPrograms of Study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53
56 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 PM
English: Faculty and Staff
Professors
Gordon Bigelow . 1998.  A.B., Brown University; M.A., University of New Hampshire;
Ph.D., University of California, Santa Cruz. (Nineteenth-century British and Irish Literature,
Literary Theory.) 
Marshall Boswell . 1996. B.A., Washington and Lee University; M.A., Washington
University; Ph.D., Emory University. (American Literature.)
Lori Garner . 2009. B.A., Hendrix College; M.A. University of Arkansas; Ph.D., University
of Missouri. (Medieval Studies, Oral Tradition.)
Scott Newstok . 2007. B.A., Grinnell College; Ph.D., Harvard University. (Shakespeare,
Poetics.
Leslie Petty . 2003. B.A., Emory University; M.A., Louisiana State University; Ph.D.,
University of Georgia. (American Literature.) 
Rashna Wadia Richards . 2008. B.A., Narsee Monjee College, Mumbai, India; M.A.,
University of Mumbai, India; M.A., West Virginia University; Ph.D., University of Florida.
(Film Studies.)
Associate Professors
Amy Benson . 2016. B.S., Bowling Green State University; M.F.A., University of Alabama,
Tuscaloosa, AL (Creative Non-Fiction.)
Stephanie Elsky . 2017. B.A., Columbia University; M.A. and Ph.D., University of
Pennsylvania. (Early Modern Literature.)
Rebecca Finlayson . 2001. Director of College Writing, Director of the Rhodes Summer
Writing Institute. B.A., Smith College; M.A. and Ph.D., Emory University. (Early Modern
British Literature.)
Judith Haas . 2002. B.A., Wesleyan University; Ph.D., University of California, Santa Cruz.
(Medieval Studies, Women’s Studies.)
Jason Richards . 2008. B.A., and M.A., California State University, Long Beach; Ph.D.,
University of Florida. (American Literature, Postcolonial Literature.)
Seth Rudy . 2010. B.F.A., New York University (Film and Television); M.A., New York
University; Ph.D., New York University. (Eighteenth Century English Literature, British
Romanticism.)
Caki Wilkinson . 2012. Director of Creative Writing. B.A., Rhodes College; M.F.A. (Poetry)
Johns Hopkins University; Ph.D., University of Cincinnati. (English and Comparative
Literature.)
Staff
Lorie W. Yearwood . 2006. Departmental Assistant. A.A.S., State Technical Institute atPrograms of Study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53
57 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 PM
Memphis.
Printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/english/english-faculty-and-staff
Honors in English
1. Courses required: fulﬁllment of the requirements for a major in English; English
495-496.
2. A substantial, in-depth thesis.
3. Approval by the English Honors Committee.
Printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/english/honors-english
Requirements for a Major in English
A total of eleven (11) courses (44 credits) as follows:
Track I: Concentration in Literature:
I. English 285, normally taken by the end of the sophomore year.
II. One (1) course in four (4) of the following ﬁve (5) categories:
• A. Medieval (192, 218, 219, 260, 315, 319, 320, 321, 325)
• B. Renaissance/Early Modern (230, 322, 323, 324, 332, 335, 340)
• C. 18th  Century (240, 260, 336, 343, 345, 350)
• D. 19th  Century (261, 262, 350, 351, 355, 360, 361)
• E. 20th-21st  Century (202, 241, 242, 245, 250, 251, 262, 316, 362, 363, 365, 366,
370, 382)
III. One (1) course in each of the following three (3) categories:
• A. Diversity and Difference (219, 220, 224, 225, 242, 264, 275, 361, 364, 375)
• B. In Focus (191, 218, 220, 221, 225, 230, 235, 245, 250, 251,  264, 290, 315, 316,
321, 322, 323, 324, 325, 332, 335, 336, 343, 345, 359, 360, 363, 366, 375)
• C. Topics in Literary Theory (382, 385)
IV. Distribution attributes for special topics courses (190, 265, 380, 381) will vary
depending on topic/section.Programs of Study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53
58 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 PM
V. English 485, normally taken in the senior year.
VI.   Up to two (2) special  courses may count (e.g. creative writing courses, literature
courses outside the department, etc.).
VII. Of the eleven required courses, a minimum of seven (7) must be numbered 300 or
above. (English 460 does not fulﬁll this requirement.)
VIII. A course may carry up to two separate designations (for example, II.A and IV or III.B
and IV).
IX.  FYWS 151 and HUM 201 courses taught by English faculty may count towards the
eleven (11) required courses.
Track II: Concentration in Literature and Creative
Writing:
I. English 285, normally taken by the end of the sophomore year.
II. One (1) course in Category A, B, or C and one (1) course in category D or E:
• A. Medieval (192, 218, 219, 260, 315, 319, 320, 321, 325)
• B. Renaissance/Early Modern (230, 322, 323, 324, 332, 335, 340)
• C. 18th  Century (240, 260, 336, 343, 345, 350)
• D. 19th  Century (261, 262, 350, 351, 355, 360, 361)
• E. 20th-21st  Century (202, 241, 242, 245, 250, 251, 262, 316, 362, 363, 365, 366,
370, 382)
III. One (1) course in each of the following three (3) categories:
• A. Diversity and Difference (219, 220, 224, 225, 242, 264, 275, 361, 364,  375)
• B. In Focus (191, 218, 220, 221, 225, 230, 235, 245, 250, 251,  264, 290, 315, 316,Programs of Study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53
59 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 PM
321, 322, 323, 324, 325, 332, 335, 336, 343, 345, 359, 360, 363, 366, 375)
• C. Topics in Literary Theory (382, 385)
IV. Distribution attributes for special topics courses (190, 265, 380, 381) will vary
depending on topic/section.
V. English 485, normally taken in the senior year.
VI. One (1) workshop course in each of the following four (4) categories:
• A. English 210: Introduction to Creative Writing
• B. Intermediate Workshop I (300, 301, 305)
• C. Intermediate Workshop II, in a second genre (300, 301, 305)
• D. Advanced Workshop (400, 401, 405)
VII.  Of the eleven required courses, a minimum of seven (7) must be numbered 300 or
above. (English 460 does not fulﬁll this requirement.)
VIII.  A course may carry up to two separate designations (for example, II.A and IV or III.B
and IV).
IX. FYWS 151 and HUM 201 courses taught by English faculty may count towards the
eleven (11) required courses.
Note: Those considering the concentration in literature and creative writing should
contact one of the creative writing professors for early advising, preferably by the
end of the ﬁrst year.
Printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/english/requirements-major-
english
Requirements for a Minor in Creative Writing
A total of ﬁve (5) courses and twenty (20) credits as follows:Programs of Study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53
60 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 PM
1. English 210: Introduction to Creative Writing
2. Intermediate Workshop I (300, 301, 305)
3. Intermediate Workshop II, in a second genre (300, 301, 305)
4. Advanced Workshop (400, 401, 405)
5. One additional English course at the 200 level or above 
Printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/english/requirements-minor-
creative-writing
Requirements for a Minor in English
A total of 5 courses (20 credits) as follows:
1. Two courses at the 190 or 200 level
2. Three additional courses in English numbered 300 or higher.
Printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/english/requirements-minor-
english
Requirements for the Journalism Certiﬁcate in English
(16 credits)
I. English 255: Introduction to Journalism (F2i) 
II. Two (2) courses from the following electives:  
         First Year Writing Seminar 155: The New Yorker  (F2s) 
         English 206-207: Creative Publishing: The Southwestern Review
         English 305: Intermediate Workshop in Non Fiction 
         English 316: Advanced Grammar 
         English 405: Advanced Workshop in Non Fiction 
         
III. English 460: Internship (4 credits in relevant area) (F11) 
Printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/english/requirements-journalism-
certiﬁcate-englishPrograms of Study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53
61 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 PM
The Writing Center
The Department oversees a writing service available to all Rhodes students. Student
tutors  are available daily to assist students with written work.  
Printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/english/writing-center
Environmental Studies and Sciences
The Environmental Studies & Sciences Program at Rhodes offers an innovative
curriculum that allows students to combine study in social sciences, humanities, natural
sciences, and ﬁne arts.
Printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/environmental-studies-and-
sciences
Environmental Studies and Sciences: Program
Committee
Raina Belleau , Department of Art and Art History  
Erin Bodine , Department of Mathematics  
Sarah Boyle , Department of Biology   
Michael Collins , Department of Biology   
Kelly Diamond , Department of Biology   
Erin Dolgoy , Department of Politics & Law; Department of Philosophy  
William Eckenhoff, Department of Chemistry (Chair)  
James Engman , Department of Biology  
Elaine Frawley , Department of Biology   
Judith Haas , Department of English  
Jeffrey Jackson , Department of History  
Tait Keller , Department of History  
Laura Loth , Department of Modern Languages, French  
Sydney Moyo , Department of Biology   
Elizabeth Pettinaroli , Department of Modern Languages   
Brooke Schedneck , Department of Religious Studies  
Kate Shields , Environmental Studies & Sciences Program  
Rebecca Tuvel , Department of Philosophy  
Shaolu Yu , Urban Studies Program
Printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/environmental-studies-and-Programs of Study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53
62 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 PM
sciences/environmental-studies-and-sciences-program
Honors in Environmental Sciences and Environmental
Studies
Honors in Environmental Sciences
1. Students must have a minimum GPA of 3.5 (cumulative and in the major) at the time
of application and upon graduation. Students typically enroll in ENVS Research
(ENVS 452) during the spring semester of their junior year, in preparation for
submitting their Honors proposal.
2. Students must complete all courses needed for a B. S. degree with a major in
Environmental Sciences. 
3. Students must complete the Honors Tutorial (ENVS 495 and 496), taken during the
fall and spring semesters of senior year.
4. Students must conduct an original investigation of an environmentally-focused topic,
under the direct supervision of an ENVS faculty member. Honors research may be
conducted off campus, with ENVS Program approval, but there must be supervision
by an ENVS faculty member.
5. Students must complete a formal research proposal by the start of the fall semester
in the students’ senior year. The research project must be completed and approved
by the supervising Honors committee. This committee will consist of two ENVS
faculty members and one faculty member not afﬁliated with the ENVS Program.
Students must complete a scientiﬁc paper that adheres to the Rhodes College
guidelines for Honors, and students must give an oral presentation of their research
ﬁndings.
--
Honors in Environmental Studies
1. Students must have a minimum GPA of 3.5 (cumulative and in the major) at the time
of application and upon graduation. Students typically enroll in ENVS Research
(ENVS 452) during the spring semester of their junior year, in preparation for
submitting their Honors proposal.
2. Students must complete all courses needed for a B. A. degree with a major in
Environmental Studies. Programs of Study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53
63 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 PM
3. Students must complete the Honors Tutorial (ENVS 495 and 496), taken during the
fall and spring semesters of senior year.
4. Students must conduct an original investigation of an environmentally-focused topic,
under the direct supervision of an ENVS faculty member. Honors research may be
conducted off campus, with ENVS Program approval, but there must be supervision
by an ENVS faculty member.
5. Students must complete a formal research proposal by the start of the fall semester
in the students’ senior year. The research project must be completed and approved
by the supervising Honors committee. This committee will consist of two ENVS
faculty members and one faculty member not afﬁliated with the ENVS Program.
Students must complete a research paper that adheres to the Rhodes College
guidelines for Honors, and students must give an oral presentation of their research
ﬁndings.
Printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/environmental-studies-and-
sciences/honors-environmental-sciences-and-environmental
Policy on Advanced Placement Credit
Students who have received a 5 on the Advanced Placement Environmental Science
examination may count that credit as one introductory Environmental Sciences elective
course in the Environmental Studies and Sciences majors and minors.
Printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/environmental-studies-and-
sciences/policy-advanced-placement-credit
Requirements for a Major in Environmental Sciences
A total of ﬁfty four to ﬁfty six (54-56) hours and one additional environmental experience
as follows:
1. Four Introductory Courses:
1. ENVS 150: Environment and Society.
2. Three introductory courses from the following list:
1. BIOL 120(L): Environmental Science.
2. CHEM 120 and CHEM 125: Foundations of Chemistry.Programs of Study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53
64 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 PM
3. ENVS 106(L): Introductory Topics in Environmental Science.
4. ENVS 107: Environment, Conservation & Policy Issues. (Global
Environmental Challenges Semester in Ecuador)
5. ENVS 108: Tropical Biology. (Global Environmental Challenges Semester
in Ecuador)
6. ENVS 111(L): Physical Geology.
7. ENVS 170: Rocky Mountain Field Research. (at Teton Science Schools)
8. MATH 214: Discrete Mathematical Modeling with Biological Applications.
2. One statistics course from the following list:
1. ECON 290: Statistical Analysis for Economics and Business.
2. MATH 111:  Applied Statistics for Liberal Arts.
3. MATH 211: Applied Statistics for the Formal & Natural Sciences
4. PSYC 211: Statistical Methods.
3. Four upper-level Environmental Sciences electives. Three courses must contain a
lab component. Courses must come from at least two departments. Additional
courses may be designated by the Environmental Studies and Sciences program.
1. Prerequisite : INTD 225 (GIS)
1. ENVS 325: Advanced GIS and Remote Sensing.
2. Prerequisites : ENVS 111 or BIOL 120 or CHEM 120
1. ENVS 206(L): Topics in Environmental Science.
2. ENVS 211(L): Geomorphology.
3. Prerequisites : BIOL 120 and CHEM 120 or BIOL 130-131 and 140-141
1. BIOL 207(L): Animal Behavior.
2. BIOL 212: Environmental Issues in Southern Africa.
3. BIOL 260: Science of Climate Change.
4. BIOL 311(L): Invertebrate Biology.
5. BIOL 315(L): Ecology.Programs of Study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53
65 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 PM
6. BIOL 316(L): Freshwater Ecology.
7. BIOL 318(L): Entomology.
8. BIOL 320(L): Conservation Biology.
9. BIOL 345(L): Ornithology.
10. BIOL 348(L): Wildlife Biology.
11. BIOL 365: Advanced Topics in Biology. (Environmentally-related topic
approved by the chair of the Environmental Studies and Sciences
program)
4. Prerequisites : BIOL 120 and CHEM 120 or BIOL 130-131, BIOL 140-141, and
CHEM 120
1. BIOL 280: Microbial Methods in Ecology. (Semester in Environmental
Science Program, Woods Hole)
2. ENVS 260: Aquatic Ecosystem Analysis. (Semester in Environmental
Science Program, Woods Hole)
3. ENVS 270: Terrestrial Ecosystem Analysis. (Semester in Environmental
Science Program, Woods Hole)
4. ENVS 450: Independent Research Project. (Semester in Environmental
Science Program, Woods Hole)
5. Prerequisites : BIOL 130-131 and 140-141
1. BIOL 200(L): Evolution.
2. BIOL 201(L): Mycology.
3. BIOL 301(L): Microbiology.
4. BIOL 302: Parasitology
5. BIOL 322(L): Plant Diversity and Evolution.
6. BIOL 350(L): Comparative Vertebrate Morphology.
7. BIOL 365(L): Advanced Topics in Biology. (Environmentally-related topic
approved by the chair of the Environmental Studies and Sciences
program)Programs of Study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53
66 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 PM
6. Prerequisite : CHEM 120
1. CHEM 206: Environmental Chemistry.
2. CHEM 211: Organic Chemistry I.
7. Prerequisite : CHEM 211
1. CHEM 240(L): Analytical Chemistry.
8. Prerequisite : CHEM 240
1. CHEM 406: Advanced Analytical Chemistry.
9. Prerequisites : PHYS 111 and PHYS 112
1. PHYS 260: Science of Climate Change
10. Prerequisite : Permission of Instructor
1. ENVS 451-452: Research.
2. ENVS 495-496: Honors Tutorial.
4. Two Environmental Studies electives from the following list:
1. ANSO 201: Human Evolution.
2. ANSO 221: North of the Rio Grande: Indigenous People of North America.
3. ANSO 251: Nature and Society.
4. ANSO 265: Selected Introductory Topics in Anthropology and Sociology. (i.e.
Southern Foodscapes, or other environmentally-related topic approved by the
chair of the Environmental Studies and Sciences program)
5. ANSO 271: Ecological Anthropology.
6. ANSO 273: Gender and the Environment.
7. ANSO 345: Just Food.
8. ART 166: Art and Science.
9. CHIN 216: Asian Urbanization through Cinema.
10. ECON 100: Introduction to Economics
11. ECON 349: Environmental and Natural Resource Economics.
12. ENVS 205: Topics in Environmental Studies. (When approved by the chair ofPrograms of Study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53
67 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 PM
the Environmental Studies and Sciences program)
13. ENVS 207: Linking the Local to the Global. (Global Environmental Challenges
Semester in Ecuador)
14. FREN 442: Francophone Ecocriticism.
15. FYWS 151: Energy & Waste.
16. FYWS 151: Consuming Cultures & the Problem of Waste.
17. HIST 105: Disease & Epidemics.
18. HIST 201: History of Environmental Thought.
19. HIST 207: Global Environmental History.
20. HIST 209: Natural Disasters.
21. HIST 307: Nature and War.
22. HUM 201: Search for Values. (Bakewell's, Colley's, Jackson’s, Loth's, or
Rogers' section only)
23. INTS 220: Global Ecopolitics.
24. INTS 221: Population and National Security.
25. INTS 222: Global Health Politics.
26. INTS 340: The Politics of Migration.
27. INTS 341: Comparative Ecopolitics.
28. PHIL 230: Environmental Ethics.
29. PHIL 315: Philosophy of Science & Nature.
30. PHIL 332: Animal Ethics.
31. PHIL 401: Ethics of Captivity.
32. PLAW 206: Urban Politics and Policy.
33. RELS 101/102: The Bible and the Environment.Programs of Study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53
68 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 PM
34. RELS 101: The Bible and the City.
35. RELS 101/102: The Bible and Food.
36. RELS 220: Landscape and Ecological Spirituality.
37. RELS 258. Religion, Nature, and Environmental Crisis.
38. RELS 300: Religion, Nature, and the Anthropocene.
39. RELS 301: Socially Engaged Buddhism.
40. SPAN 318: Ecocritical Perspectives in Latin America.
41. URBN 201: Introduction to Urban Studies.
42. URBN 235: Principles of Public Health.
43. URBN 265: Asian Urbanization through Cinema.
44. URBN 320: Globalization and Cities.
45. URBN 365: Intro to Urban Planning and Design.
5. INTD 225: Geographic Information Systems.
6. ENVS 486: Senior Seminar.
7. Experiential Learning. Each student in the major will be required to complete an
environmentally-oriented experience in which they  will have a substantial
engagement with environmental issues outside the Rhodes campus. There are
several ways to complete this requirement, some of which are credit-bearing, but
others are not. As with the College’s F11 requirement, students are not required to
receive academic credit. The experiential learning component may be fulﬁlled by a
course that counts as one of the electives for the major. Students may enroll in one
of the courses listed below (Section A), or receive approval from the Chair of the
Program for an alternative experience (Section B).
1. Students may enroll in one of the following:
1. ARCE 120: Field Research in Environmental Archaeology.
2. ARCE 450: Archaeological Field School.
3. BIOL 214: Environmental Field Study in Namibia.
4. ENVS 170: Rocky Mountain Field Research (at Teton Science Schools).Programs of Study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53
69 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 PM
5. ENVS 207: Linking the Local to the Global. (Global Environmental
Challenges Semester in Ecuador)
6. ENVS 450: Independent Research Project. (Semester in Environmental
Science Program, Woods Hole)
7. ENVS 451-452: Research.
8. ENVS 460: Internship in Environmental Studies and Sciences.
9. ENVS 495-496: Honors Tutorial.
2. Experiences other than those listed above must be approved by the chair  of the
Environmental Studies and Sciences Program and will require a substantial
essay, evaluated by the chair of the program, which links the student’s
experience with what they  learned in the classroom. Experiences may include
organized service projects at Rhodes with faculty or staff oversight (such as the
Summer Service Fellowships), or study abroad experiences approved by
Rhodes with signiﬁcant environmental content as determined by the chair of the
Environmental Studies and Sciences program.
N.B.: Although not required for the major, COMP 141: Computer Science I, is strongly
recommended.
Printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/environmental-studies-and-
sciences/requirements-major-environmental-sciences
Requirements for a Major in Environmental Studies
A total of ﬁfty-two (52) credits and one additional environmental experience as follows:
1. Two Introductory Courses:
1. ENVS 150: Environment and Society.
2. One introductory Environmental Sciences course from the following list (this
course may not also be used to fulﬁll Environmental Sciences elective):
1. BIOL 105(L): Global Change Biology. (other topics for BIOL 105 may not
apply)
2. BIOL 110(L): Biology for Global Citizens.Programs of Study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53
70 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 PM
3. BIOL 120: Introduction to Environmental Science.
4. ENVS 106: Introductory Topics in Environmental Science.
5. ENVS 107: Environment, Conservation & Policy Issues. (Global
Environmental Challenges Semester in Ecuador)
6. ENVS 108: Tropical Biology. (Global Environmental Challenges Semester
in Ecuador)
7. ENVS 111: Physical Geology.
8. ENVS 170: Rocky Mountain Ecology Field Research. (at Teton Science
Schools)
2. ECON 100: Introduction to Economics.
3. Six Environmental Studies electives from the following list; courses must come from
at least two departments or programs; additional courses may be designated by the
Environmental Studies and Sciences program:
1. ANSO 201: Human Evolution.
2. ANSO 221: North of the Rio Grande: Indigenous People of North America.
3. ANSO 251: Nature and Society.
4. ANSO 265: Selected Introductory Topics in Anthropology and Sociology. (i.e.
Southern Foodscapes, or other environmentally-related topic approved by the
chair of the Environmental Studies and Sciences program)
5. ANSO 271: Ecological Anthropology.
6. ANSO 273: Gender and the Environment.
7. ANSO 345: Just Food.
8. ART 166. Art and Science.
9. CHIN 216: Asian Urbanization through Cinema.
10. ECON 349: Environmental and Natural Resource Economics.
11. ENVS 205: Topics in Environmental Studies.
12. ENVS 207: Linking the Local to the Global. (Global Environmental ChallengesPrograms of Study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53
71 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 PM
Semester in Ecuador)
13. ENVS 451-452: Research.
14. ENVS 495-496: Honors Tutorial.
15. FREN 442: Francophone Ecocriticism.
16. FYWS 151: Energy & Waste.
17. FYWS 151: Consuming Cultures & the Problem of Waste.
18. HIST 105: Disease & Epidemics.
19. HIST 201: History of Environmental Thought.
20. HIST 207: Global Environmental History.
21. HIST 209: Natural Disasters.
22. HIST 307: Nature and War.
23. HUM 201: Search for Values. (Bakewell's, Colley's, Jackson’s, Loth's, or
Rogers' section only)
24. INTS 220: Global Ecopolitics.
25. INTS 221: Population and National Security.
26. INTS 222: Global Health Politics.
27. INTS 340: The Politics of Migration.
28. INTS 341: Comparative Ecopolitics.
29. PHIL 230: Environmental Ethics.
30. PHIL 315: Philosophy of Science and Nature.
31. PHIL 332: Animal Ethics.
32. PHIL 401: The Ethics of Captivity.
33. PLAW  206: Urban Politics and Policy.
34. PLAW 380: Environmental Law and Policy.Programs of Study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53
72 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 PM
35. RELS 101/102: Bible and the Environment.
36. RELS 101: Bible and the City.
37. RELS 101/102: Bible and Food.
38. RELS 220: Landscape and Ecological Spirituality.
39. RELS 258. Religion, Nature, and Environmental Crisis.
40. RELS 300: Religion, Nature, and the Anthropocene.
41. RELS 301: Socially Engaged Buddhism.
42. SPAN 318: Ecocritical Perspectives in Latin America.
43. URBN 201: Introduction to Urban Studies.
44. URBN 235: Principles of Public Health.
45. URBN 265: Asian Urbanization through Cinema.
46. URBN 320: Globalization and Cities.
47. URBN 365: Intro to Urban Planning and Design.
4. Two additional Environmental Sciences courses from the following list; additional
courses may be designated by the Environmental Studies and Sciences program:
1. No Prerequisites
1. BIOL 105(L): Global Change Biology (other topics for BIOL 105 may not
apply)
2. BIOL 110(L): Biology for Global Citizens.
3. BIOL 120(L): Introduction to Environmental Science.
4. CHEM 120 and CHEM 125: Foundations of Chemistry.
5. ENVS 106: Introductory Topics in Environmental Science.
6. ENVS 107: Environment, Conservation & Policy Issues. (Global
Environmental Challenges Semester in Ecuador)
7. ENVS 108: Tropical Biology. (Global Environmental Challenges Semester
in Ecuador)Programs of Study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53
73 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 PM
8. ENVS 111(L): Physical Geology.
9. ENVS 170: Rocky Mountain Ecology Field Research. (at Teton Science
Schools)
10. MATH 115: Applied Calculus or a statistics course (ECON 290 or MATH
111 or MATH 211  or PSYC 211)  or COMP 141:  Computer Science I.
11. MATH 214: Discrete Mathematical Modeling with Biological Applications.
2. Prerequisites : INTD 225 (GIS)
1. ENVS 325: Advanced GIS and Remote Sensing.
3. Prerequisites : ENVS 111 or BIOL 120 or CHEM 120
1. ENVS 206(L): Topics in Environmental Sciences.
2. ENVS 211(L): Geomorphology.
4. Prerequisites : BIOL 120 and CHEM 120 or BIOL 130-131 and 140-141
1. BIOL 207(L): Animal Behavior.
2. BIOL 212 : Environmental Issues in Southern Africa.
3. BIOL 260: Science of Climate Change.
4. BIOL 311(L): Invertebrate Biology.
5. BIOL 315(L): Ecology.
6. BIOL 316(L): Freshwater Ecology.
7. BIOL 318(L): Entomology.
8. BIOL 320(L): Conservation Biology.
9. BIOL 345(L): Ornithology.
10. BIOL 348(L): Wildlife Biology.
11. BIOL 365: Advanced Topics in Biology. (Environmentally-related topic
approved by the chair of the Environmental Studies and Sciences
program)
5. Prerequisites : BIOL 130-131 and 140-141
1. BIOL 200(L): Evolution.Programs of Study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53
74 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 PM
2. BIOL 201(L): Mycology.
3. BIOL 301(L): Microbiology.
4. BIOL 302: Parasitology.
5. BIOL 322(L): Plant Diversity and Evolution.
6. BIOL 365(L): Advanced Topics in Biology. (Environmentally-related topic
approved by the chair of the Environmental Studies and Sciences
program)
6. Prerequisite : CHEM 120
1. CHEM 206: Environmental Chemistry.
2. CHEM 211: Organic Chemistry I.
7. Prerequisite : CHEM 211
1. CHEM 240(L): Analytical Chemistry.
8. Prerequisite : PHYS 111 and PHYS 112
1. PHYS 260: Science of Climate Change.
5. INTD 225: Geographic Information Systems.
6. ENVS 486: Senior Seminar.
7. Experiential Learning. Each student in the major will be required to complete an
environmentally-oriented experience in which they  will have a substantial
engagement with environmental issues outside the Rhodes campus. There are
several ways to complete this requirement, some of which are credit-bearing, but
others are not. As with the College’s F11 requirement, students are not required to
receive academic credit. The experiential learning component may be fulﬁlled by a
course that counts as one of the electives for the major. Students may enroll in one
of the courses listed below (Section A), or receive approval from the Chair of the
Program for an alternative experience (Section B).
1. Students may enroll in one of the following:
▪ ARCE 120: Field Research in Environmental Archaeology.
▪ ARCE 450: Archaeological Field School.
▪ BIOL 214: Environmental Field Study in Namibia.
▪ ENVS 170: Rocky Mountain Ecology Field Research. (at Teton SciencePrograms of Study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53
75 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 PM
Schools)
▪ ENVS 207: Linking the Local to the Global. (Global Environmental
Challenges Semester in Ecuador)
▪ ENVS 451-452: Research.
▪ ENVS 460: Internship in Environmental Studies and Sciences.
▪ ENVS 495-496: Honor's Tutorial.
2. Experiences other than those listed above must be approved by the chair of the
Environmental Studies and Sciences Program and will require a substantial
essay, evaluated by the chair of the program, which links the student’s
experience with what they  have  learned in the classroom. Experiences may
include organized service projects at Rhodes with faculty or staff oversight
(such as the Summer Service Fellowships), or study abroad experiences
approved by Rhodes with signiﬁcant environmental content as determined by
the chair of the Environmental Studies and Sciences program.
Printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/environmental-studies-and-
sciences/requirements-major-environmental-studies
Requirements for a Minor in Environmental Sciences
A total of twenty-four to twenty-seven (24-27) credits and one environmental experience
as follows:
1. ENVS 150: Environment and Society.
2. One of the following introductory courses in Environmental Sciences:
1. BIOL 120(L): Introduction to Environmental Sciences.
2. CHEM 120 and CHEM 125: Foundations of Chemistry.
3. ENVS 106 or 106(L): Introductory Topics in Environmental Science.
4. ENVS 107: Environment, Conservation & Policy Issues. (Global Environmental
Challenges Semester in Ecuador)
5. ENVS 108: Tropical Biology. (Global Environmental Challenges Semester in
Ecuador)Programs of Study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53
76 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 PM
6. ENVS 111(L): Physical Geology.
7. ENVS 170: Rocky Mountain Field Research. (at Teton Science Schools)
8. MATH 214: Discrete Mathematical Modeling with Biological Applications.
3. Three of the following Environmental Sciences courses from the following list. At
least one must be taken from outside student’s major department or program.
Additional courses may be designated by the Environmental Studies and Sciences
program.
1. No Prerequisites
1. BIOL 120(L): Introduction to Environmental Sciences.
2. CHEM 120 and CHEM 125: Foundations of Chemistry.
3. ENVS 106 or 106(L): Introductory Topics in Environmental Science.
4. ENVS 111(L): Physical Geology.
5. ENVS 170: Rocky Mountain Ecology Field Research. (at Teton Science
Schools)
6. INTD 225: Geographic Information Systems
7. MATH 115: Applied Calculus.
8. MATH 214: Discrete Mathematical Modeling with Biological Applications.
2. Prerequisite : INTD 225 (GIS)
1. ENVS 325: Advanced GIS and Remote Sensing.
3. Prerequisites : ENVS 111 or BIOL 120 or CHEM 120
1. ENVS 206 or 206(L): Topics in Environmental Science.
2. ENVS 211(L): Geomorphology.
4. Prerequisites : BIOL 120 and CHEM 120 or BIOL 130-131 and 140-141
1. BIOL 207(L): Animal Behavior.
2. BIOL 212: Environmental Issues in Southern Africa.
3. BIOL 260: Science of Climate Change.
4. BIOL 311(L): Invertebrate Biology.Programs of Study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53
77 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 PM
5. BIOL 315(L): Ecology.
6. BIOL 316(L): Freshwater Ecology.
7. BIOL 318(L): Entomology.
8. BIOL 320(L): Conservation Biology.
9. BIOL 345(L): Ornithology.
10. BIOL 348(L): Wildlife Biology.
11. BIOL 365: Advanced Topics in Biology. (Environmentally-related topic
approved by the chair of the Environmental Studies and
Sciences  program)
5. Prerequisites : BIOL 130-131 and 140-141
1. BIOL 200(L): Evolution.
2. BIOL 201(L): Mycology.
3. BIOL 301(L): Microbiology.
4. BIOL 302: Parasitology
5. BIOL 322(L): Plant Diversity and Evolution.
6. BIOL 365(L): Advanced Topics in Biology. (Environmentally-related topic
approved by the chair of the Environmental Studies and Sciences
program)
6. Prerequisites : BIOL 120 and CHEM 120 or BIOL 130-131, BIOL 140-141, and
CHEM 120
1. BIOL 280: Microbial Methods in Ecology. (Semester in Environmental
Science Program, Woods Hole)
2. ENVS 260: Aquatic Ecosystem Analysis. (Semester in Environmental
Science Program, Woods Hole)
3. ENVS 270: Terrestrial Ecosystem Analysis. (Semester in Environmental
Science Program, Woods Hole)
4. ENVS 450: Independent Research Project. (Semester in Environmental
Science Program, Woods Hole)Programs of Study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53
78 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 PM
7. Prerequisite : CHEM 120
1. CHEM 206: Environmental Chemistry.
2. CHEM 211: Organic Chemistry I.
8. Prerequisite : CHEM 211
1. CHEM 240(L): Analytical Chemistry.
9. Prerequisite : CHEM 240
1. CHEM 406: Advanced Analytical Chemistry.
10. Prerequisites : PHYS 111 and PHYS 112
1. PHYS 260: Science of Climate Change
4. One additional Environmental Studies elective from the following list. Additional courses
may be designated by the Environmental Studies and Sciences program.
1. ANSO 201: Human Evolution.
2. ANSO 221: North of the Rio Grande: Indigenous People of North America.
3. ANSO 251: Nature and Society.
4. ANSO 265: Selected Introductory Topics in Anthropology and Sociology. (i.e.
Southern Foodscapes, or other environmentally- related topic approved by the chair
of the Environmental Studies and Sciences program)
5. ANSO 271: Ecological Anthropology.
6. ANSO 273: Gender and the Environment.
7. ANSO 345: Just Food.
8. ART 166: Art and Science.
9. CHIN 216: Asian Urbanization through Cinema.
10. ECON 100: Intro to Economics
11. ECON 349: Environmental and Natural Resource Economics.
12. ENVS 205: Topics in Environmental Studies. (when approved by the chair of the
Environmental Studies and Sciences program)
13. ENVS 207: Linking the Local to the Global. (Global Environmental ChallengesPrograms of Study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53
79 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 PM
Semester in Ecuador)
14. FREN 442: Francophone Ecocriticism.
15. FYWS 151: Energy & Waste.
16. FYWS 151: Consuming Cultures & the Problem of Waste.
17. HIST 105: Disease & Epidemics.
18. HIST 201: History of Environmental Thought.
19. HIST 207: Global Environmental History.
20. HIST 209: Natural Disasters.
21. HIST 307: Nature and War.
22. HUM 201: Search for Values. (Bakewell's, Colley's, Jackson’s, Loth's, or Rogers'
section only)
23. INTS 220: Global Ecopolitics.
24. INTS 221: Population and National Security.
25. INTS 222: Global Health Politics.
26. INTS 340: The Politics of Migration.
27. INTS 341: Comparative Ecopolitics.
28. PHIL 230: Environmental Ethics.
29. PHIL 315: Philosophy of Science and Nature.
30. PHIL 332: Animal Ethics.
31. PHIL 401: The Ethics of Captivity.
32. PLAW  206: Urban Politics and Policy.
33. PLAW 380: Environmental Law and Policy.
34. RELS 101/102: Bible and Environment.
35. RELS 101: Bible and the City.Programs of Study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53
80 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 PM
36. RELS 101/102: Bible and Food.
37. RELS 220: Landscape and Ecological Spirituality.
38. RELS 258: Religion, Nature, and Environmental Crisis.
39. RELS 300: Religion, Nature & the Anthropocene.
40. SPAN 318: Ecocritical Perspectives in Latin America.
41. URBN 201: Introduction to Urban Studies.
42. URBN 235: Principles of Public Health.
43. URBN 265: Asian Urbanization through Cinema.
44. URBN 320: Globalization and Cities.
45. URBN 365: Intro to Urban Planning and Design.
5. Experiential Learning. Each student in the minor will be required to complete an
environmentally-oriented experience in which they  will have a substantial engagement
with environmental issues outside the Rhodes campus. There are several ways to
complete this requirement, some of which are credit-bearing, but others are not. As with
the College’s F11 requirement, students are not required to receive academic credit. The
experiential learning component may be fulﬁlled by a course that counts as one of the
electives for the minor. Students may enroll in one of the courses listed below (Section A),
or receive approval from the Chair of the Program for an alternative experience (Section
B).
1. Students may enroll in one of the following:
◦ ARCE 120: Field Research in Environmental Archaeology.
◦ ARCE 450: Archaeological Field School.
◦ BIOL 214: Environmental Field Study in Namibia.
◦ BIOL 451-452: Research.
◦ ENVS 170: Rocky Mountain Ecology Field Research. (at Teton Science
Schools)
◦ ENVS 207: Linking the Local to the Global. (Global Environmental Challenges
Semester in Ecuador)Programs of Study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53
81 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 PM
◦ ENVS 451-452: Research.
◦ ENVS 460: Internship in Environmental Studies and Sciences.
◦ ENVS 495-496: Honor's Tutorial.
2. Experiences other than those listed above must be approved by the chair of the
Environmental Studies and Sciences Program and will require a substantial essay,
evaluated by the chair of the program, which links the student’s experience with what
they  have  learned in the classroom. Experiences may include organized service
projects at Rhodes with faculty or staff oversight (such as the Summer Service
Fellowships), or study abroad experiences approved by Rhodes with signiﬁcant
environmental content as determined by the chair of the Environmental Studies and
Sciences program.
N.B.: Although not required for the minor, COMP 141: Computer Science I, is strongly
recommended.
Printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/environmental-studies-and-
sciences/requirements-minor-environmental-sciences
Requirements for a Minor in Environmental Studies
A total of twenty-four to twenty-ﬁve  (24-25) credits and one additional experiential
environmental experience as follows:
1. ENVS 150: Environment and Society.
2. Four of the following Environmental Studies courses from at least two departments or
programs. Additional courses may be designated by the Environmental Studies and
Sciences program.
1. ANSO 201: Human Evolution.
2. ANSO 221: North of the Rio Grande: Indigenous People of North America.
3. ANSO 251: Nature and Society.
4. ANSO 265: Selected Introductory Topics in Anthropology and Sociology. (i.e.
Southern Foodscapes, or other environmentally-related topic approved by the
chair of the Environmental Studies and Sciences program)Programs of Study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53
82 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 PM
5. ANSO 271: Ecological Anthropology.
6. ANSO 273: Gender and the Environment.
7. ANSO 345: Just Food.
8. ART 166: Art and Science.
9. CHIN 216: Asian Urbanization through Cinema.
10. ECON 100: Intro to Economics
11. ECON 349: Environmental and Natural Resource Economics.
12. ENVS 205: Topics in Environmental Studies.
13. ENVS 207: Linking the Local to the Global. (Global Environmental Challenges
Semester in Ecuador)
14. ENVS 451-452: Research.
15. FREN 442: Francophone Ecocriticism.
16. FYWS 151: Energy & Waste.
17. FYWS 151: Consuming Cultures & the Problem of Waste.
18. HIST 105: Disease & Epidemics.
19. HIST 201: History of Environmental Thought.
20. HIST 207: Global Environmental History.
21. HIST 209: Natural Disasters.
22. HIST 307: Nature and War.
23. HUM 201: Search for Values. (Jackson’s,  Bakewell's, Loth's, or Rogers' section
only)
24. INTD 225: Geographic Information Systems.
25. INTS 220: Global Ecopolitics.
26. INTS 221: Population and National Security.Programs of Study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53
83 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 PM
27. INTS 222: Global Ecopolitics.
28. INTS 340: The Politics of Migration.
29. INTS 341: Comparative Ecopolitics.
30. PHIL 230: Environmental Ethics.
31. PHIL 315: Philosophy of Science and Nature.
32. PHIL 332: Animal Ethics.
33. PHIL 401: The Ethics of Captivity.
34. PLAW  206: Urban Politics and Policy.
35. PLAW 380: Environmental Law and Policy.
36. RELS 101/102: Bible and Environment.
37. RELS 101: Bible and the City.
38. RELS 101/102: Bible and Food.
39. RELS 220: Landscape and Ecological Spirituality.
40. RELS 258: Religion, Nature, and Environmental Crisis.
41. RELS 300: Religion, Nature, and the Anthropocene.
42. RELS 301: Socially Engaged Buddhism.
43. SPAN 318: Ecocritical Perspectives in Latin America.
44. URBN 201: Introduction to Urban Studies.
45. URBN 235: Principles of Public Health.
46. URBN 265: Asian Urbanization through Cinema.
47. URBN 320: Globalization and Cities.
48. URBN 365: Intro to Urban Planning and Design.
3. One Environmental Sciences course from the following list. Additional courses may
be designated by the Environmental Studies and Sciences program.Programs of Study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53
84 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 PM
1. No Prerequisites
1. BIOL 105(L): Global Change Biology. (other topics are not approved)
2. BIOL 110(L): Biology for Global Citizens.
3. BIOL 120(L): Introduction to Environmental Science.
4. CHEM 120 and CHEM 125: Foundations of Chemistry.
5. ENVS 106(L): Introductory Topics in Environmental Science.
6. ENVS 107: Environment, Conservation & Policy Issues. (Global
Environmental Challenges Semester in Ecuador)
7. ENVS 108: Tropical Biology. (Global Environmental Challenges Semester
in Ecuador)
8. ENVS 111(L): Physical Geology.
9. ENVS 170: Rocky Mountain Ecology Field Research. (at Teton Science
Schools)
10. MATH 115: Applied Calculus or COMP 141: Computer Science I or a
statistics course (ECON 290, MATH 111, MATH 211,  or PSYC 211).
11. MATH 214: Discrete Mathematical Modeling with Biological Applications.
2. Prerequisite : INTD 225 (GIS)
1. ENVS 325: Advanced GIS and Remote Sensing.
3. Prerequisites : ENVS 111
1. ENVS 206(L): Topics in Environmental Sciences.
2. ENVS 211(L): Geomorphology
4. Prerequisites : BIOL 120 and CHEM 120 or BIOL 130-131 and 140-141
1. BIOL 207(L): Animal Behavior.
2. BIOL 212: Environmental Issues in Southern Africa.
3. BIOL 260: Science of Climate Change.
4. BIOL 311(L): Invertebrate Biology.
5. BIOL 315(L): Ecology.Programs of Study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53
85 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 PM
6. BIOL 316(L): Freshwater Ecology.
7. BIOL 318(L): Entomology.
8. BIOL 320(L): Conservation Biology.
9. BIOL 345(L): Ornithology.
10. BIOL 348(L): Wildlife Biology.
11. BIOL 365: Advanced Topics in Biology. (Environmentally-related topic
approved by the chair of the Environmental Studies and
Sciences  program)
5. Prerequisites : BIOL 130-131 and 140-141
1. BIOL 200(L): Evolution.
2. BIOL 201(L): Mycology.
3. BIOL 301(L): Microbiology.
4. BIOL 302: Parasitology.
5. BIOL 322(L): Plant Diversity and Evolution.
6. BIOL 365(L): Advanced Topics in Biology. (Environmentally-related topic
approved by the chair of the Environmental Studies and Sciences
program)
6. Prerequisite : CHEM 120
1. CHEM 206: Environmental Chemistry.
2. CHEM 211: Organic Chemistry I.
7. Prerequisite : CHEM 211
1. CHEM 240(L): Analytical Chemistry.
8. Prerequisite : PHYS 111 and PHYS 112
1. PHYS 260: Science of Climate Change.
4. Experiential Learning. Each student in the minor will be required to complete an
environmentally-oriented experience in which they  will have a substantial
engagement with environmental issues outside the Rhodes campus. There are
several ways to complete this requirement, some of which are credit-bearing, but
others are not. As with the College’s F11 requirement, students are not required toPrograms of Study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53
86 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 PM
receive academic credit. The experiential learning component may be fulﬁlled by a
course that counts as one of the electives for the minor. Students may enroll in one
of the courses listed below (Section A), or receive approval from the Chair of the
Program for an alternative experience (Section B).
1. Students may enroll in one of the following:
1. ARCE 120: Field Research in Environmental Archaeology.
2. ARCE 450: Archaeological Field School.
3. BIOL 214: Environmental Field Study in Namibia.
4. BIOL 451-452: Research (when environmentally focused)
5. ENVS 170: Rocky Mountain Field Research. (at Teton Science Schools)
6. ENVS 207: Linking the Local to the Global. (Global Environmental
Challenges Semester in Ecuador)
7. ENVS 451-452: Research.
8. ENVS 460: Internship in Environmental Studies and Sciences.
2. Experiences other than those listed above must be approved by the chair of the
Environmental Studies and Sciences Program and will require a substantial
essay, evaluated by the chair of the program, which links the student’s
experience with what they have learned in the classroom. Experiences may
include organized service projects at Rhodes with faculty or staff oversight
(such as the Summer Service Fellowships), or study abroad experiences
approved by Rhodes with signiﬁcant environmental content as determined by
the chair of the Environmental Studies and Sciences program.
Printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/environmental-studies-and-
sciences/requirements-minor-environmental-studies
Gender and Sexuality Studies
Gender and Sexuality Studies focuses on the ways in which gender and sexuality function
as part of a dynamic system that shapes identity, structures knowledge, and determines
the distribution of social and political power.
Printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/gender-and-sexuality-studiesPrograms of Study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53
87 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 PM
Gender and Sexuality Studies: Afﬁliated Faculty
Elizabeth Bridges , Department of Modern Languages
Zachary Casey , Department of Education
Kathleen Doyle , Department of Modern Languages and Literatures
Joy Brooke Fairﬁeld , Media Studies Program
Rhiannon Graybill , Department of Religious Studies, Chair
Judith Haas , Department of English
Kimberly Kasper , Department of Anthropology and Sociology
Mona Kreitner , Department of Music
Susan Kus , Department of Anthropology and Sociology
Han Li , Department of Modern Languages and Literatures
Jeanne Lopiparo , Department of Anthropology and Sociology
Laura Loth , Department of Modern Languages and Literatures
Shira Malkin , Department of Modern Languages and Literatures
David McCarthy , Department of Art
Joel Parsons , Director, Clough Hanson Gallery
Evie Perry , Department of Anthropology and Sociology 
Leslie Petty , Department of English
Rashna Richards , Department of English
Amy Risley , Department of International Studies
Vanessa Rogers , Department of Music
Brooke Schedneck , Department of Religious Studies
Elizabeth Thomas , Department of Psychology and Urban Studies
Rebecca Tuvel , Department of Philosophy
Marsha Walton , Department of Psychology
     
Printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/gender-and-sexuality-studies
/gender-and-sexuality-studies-afﬁliated-faculty
Requirements for a Minor in Gender and Sexuality
Studies
A total of twenty-four (24) credits as follows:
1. Gender and Sexuality Studies 200. Introduction to Gender and Sexuality Studies.
2. Gender and Sexuality Studies 400. Feminist Theory.Programs of Study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53
88 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 PM
3. Four courses selected from the Gender and Sexuality Studies curriculum.
Two of these courses must come from ﬁelds outside of one’s major. A list of GSS-
approved courses is updated and circulated every semester.  Students with questions are
encouraged to contact the program director.
For one of these four courses, students are encouraged to consider an Internship or a
Directed Inquiry. In order to receive academic credit for either the Internship or the
Directed Inquiry, students must write a proposal, in consultation with a faculty mentor and
submit the proposal for approval by the director of Gender and Sexuality Studies.
Printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/gender-and-sexuality-studies
/requirements-minor-gender-and-sexuality-studies
History
The Department of History at Rhodes has a national reputation for preparing students to
think critically about the historical forces that have shaped the world’s civilizations and
cultures, to see the links between the past and the present, to become clear and effective
writers and speakers, and to apply their knowledge as thoughtful citizens of the world.  A
wide range of course offerings, internships, fellowships, and research opportunities
empower students to prepare for success in any career path which they choose and to
ﬁnd their place within the ongoing human story.
Decades’ worth of data gathered by the Rhodes College Alumni Ofﬁce shows how
Rhodes History alumni have succeeded in an amazingly wide range of occupations from
ﬁlmmaking and urban planning to museums and teaching at the university level.   Our
graduates work as members of the clergy, account executives, business managers,
musicians, journalists, members of the US military, counselors, business analysts,
marketers, librarians and archivists, coaches, IT specialists, pilots, social workers,
brokers, Peace Corps veterans, real estate developers, non-proﬁt executives, artists, ﬂight
attendants, restauranteurs, land use planners -- and that’s just the beginning. 
History Course Numbering
History 100-level courses.  History courses at the 100 level are introductory topics
designed with ﬁrst-year students and sophomores in mind but are open to all students atPrograms of Study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53
89 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 PM
Rhodes who are interested in learning more about the topic or the study of History.  
History 105 is a writing intensive seminar focused on speciﬁc topics and fulﬁlls one of the
“written communication” requirements (F2i) under the Foundations Curriculum. These
courses also fulﬁll the “historical forces” (F3) requirement.   History 165 often fulﬁlls
Foundations, but varies with the topic.  Students may repeat these courses for credit
toward the History major and minor if the topic is different.  
History 200-level courses. These courses cover a broad chronological span or large
geographical area and are introductory in nature. In addition to mastering course content,
students will begin to learn to think historically through interpretive writing assignments
that require them to draw from and engage with course material and readings. Such
courses are open to all students and normally fulﬁll the "historical forces" Foundation (F3)
requirement. Several of these courses also fulﬁll other Foundations, including "meaning
and value" (F1), "institution and society" (F8), and "cultural perspectives" (F9).
History 300-level courses. These courses focus on speciﬁc topics or time periods, while
paying signiﬁcant attention to historiography. Students are required to make a signiﬁcant
oral presentation. Sophomore standing is required for these courses, unless otherwise
noted. Several of these courses also fulﬁll Foundation requirements, including  "meaning
and value" (F1), "literary texts" (F4), and "cultural perspectives" (F9).
History 400-level courses.  These courses focus on speciﬁc topics or time periods, while
paying signiﬁcant attention to historiography. Students are required to complete a
substantive research paper in which they engage substantially with primary sources.
Sophomore standing is required for these courses. Sophomore standing is required for
these courses, unless otherwise noted.
Printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/history
History: Faculty and Staff
Professors
Timothy S. Huebner. 1995.. The Irma O. Sternberg Professor of History. B.A., University
of Miami; M.A. and Ph.D., University of Florida. (U.S. South, nineteenth century, U.S.
constitutional/legal history)
Jeffrey H. Jackson.  2000. B.S., Vanderbilt University; Ph.D., University of Rochester.
(Modern Europe, France, cultural history, natural disasters)
Jonathan Judaken. 2011. The Spence Wilson Chair in the Humanities. B.A. University of
California, San Diego; M.A. and Ph.D. University of California, Irvine (Modern Europe,Programs of Study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53
90 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 PM
cultural and intellectual history)
Etty Terem. 2008. The J.J. McComb Chair in History,  B.A. and M.A., Tel Aviv University;
Ph.D., Harvard University. (Modern Middle East and North Africa, Islamic law and society)
Lynn B. Zastoupil.  1988. B.A., Dickinson State College; M.A., University of Texas; Ph.D.,
University of Minnesota. (Modern Britain, India, European intellectual history)  
Associate Professors
Michael J. LaRosa . 1995. B.A., George Washington University; M.A. and Ph.D.,
University of Miami. (Contemporary Latin America, Colombia, church history)
Seok-Won Lee . 2011. B.A., and M.A., Yonsei University; Ph.D. Cornell University.
(Modern East Asia)
Charles W. McKinney, Jr ., 2004. Neville Frierson Bryan Chair of Africana Studies. B.A.,
Morehouse College; M.A. and Ph.D., Duke University. (African-American history, civil
rights studies, twentieth-century United States)
Robert F. Saxe .2003. B.A., Reed College; Ph.D., University of Illinois. (Twentieth-century
United States, political history, war and society)
Tait S. Keller . 2008. Chair. B.A., University of Rochester; M.A. and Ph.D., Georgetown
University. (Environmental history, modern Europe, Germany)
Assistant Professors
Sarah  Ifft Decker.  2020. B.A., Swarthmore College, M.A., The Jewish Theological
Seminary, Ph.D., Yale University. (Medieval Mediterranean, Spain, economic, Jewish,
women/gender)
Samson Ndanyi . 2018. B.S. and  M.S., Towson University; M.A., Morgan State University;
Ph.D., Indiana University, Bloomington. (African history,  African American studies, African
diaspora studies, world history)
Staff
Sarah K. Gray.  Departmental Assistant. 2019. Mississippi State University.Programs of Study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53
91 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 PM
Printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/history/history-faculty-and-staff
Honors in History
1. Completion of all requirements for a Bachelor of Arts degree in History, as well as a
minimum overall grade point average of 3.50 and a minimum history grade point
average of 3.50.
2. Completion of History 495-496.
3. Completion of a major research project, culminating in a research paper and an oral
presentation. The student normally begins preparing a proposal by taking a directed
inquiry in the spring of the junior year.The formal research proposal must be
accepted by the Department early in the student’s senior year. The project must be
completed and approved by the supervising committee by April.
Printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/history/honors-history
Requirements for a Major in History
Requirements for a major in History
A total of 11 courses (44 credits) as follows:
1. History 300 (The Historian’s Craft)
2. History 485 (Senior Seminar)
3. Nine (9) additional courses at the 100, 200, 300, and 400 levels, selected according
to the following principles:
1. Of the nine courses, no more than two  sections of History 105 may be taken.
2. Of the nine courses, at least two must be seminar courses at the 300 level.
3. Of the nine courses, at least two must be seminar courses at the 400 level.
4. Of the nine courses taken at all levels, at least one must be taken in ﬁve of the
six areas listed below:
1. History of Asia
2. History of EuropePrograms of Study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53
92 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 PM
3. Global/Comparative History
4. History of Latin America
5. History of North Africa/Middle East
6. History of the United States  
5. Of the nine courses taken at all levels, at least one must concentrate in the
period prior to 1500 CE. The following courses meet that requirement: History
211, 212, 213, 222, 223, 271,  282, 293, 311, 312, 313,  and 375. (There may be
special topics as well.)
6. Humanities 201 (History Track) counts as a 200-level history course, although it
does not fulﬁll one of the area requirements listed above.
Credit earned through AP or IB does not fulﬁll the requirements of the major or minor but
does count toward the 128 credits required for graduation.
Printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/history/requirements-major-
history
Requirements for a Minor in History
A total of 5 courses (20 credits) selected according to the following principles:
1. No more than two  sections of History 105 may be taken.
2. At least two courses at the 300 or 400 level.
3. At least one course in each of three of the following areas:
1. History of Asia
2. History of Europe
3. Global/Comparative History
4. History of Latin America
5. History of North Africa/Middle East
6. History of the United States
4. Humanities 201 (History Track) counts as a 200-level history course, although it doesPrograms of Study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53
93 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 PM
not fulﬁll the area requirements listed above.
Credit earned through AP or IB does not fulﬁll the requirements of the major or minor but
does count toward the 128 credits required for graduation.
Printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/history/requirements-minor-
history
Interdisciplinary Study
Printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/interdisciplinary-study
First-Year Writing Seminar
The First-Year Writing Seminars (FYWS) are offered by different departments across the
curriculum and fulﬁll the ﬁrst component of the F2 Requirement.
Director of College Writing: Rebecca Finlayson, Department of English
151. First-Year Writing Seminar.
Fall, Spring. Credits 4.
Degree Requirement: F2s.
A course that develops the ability to read and think critically, to employ discussion and
writing as a means of exploring and reﬁning ideas, and to express those ideas in effective
prose. Individual sections of the course will explore different topics in reading, discussion,
and writing. Topics are selected by individual professors and are designed to help
students develop transferable skills of analysis and argumentation, applicable to the
various disciplines of the liberal arts and sciences. Several papers will be required, at least
one of which will involve use of the library and proper documentation. The seminar will
emphasize successive stages of the writing process, including prewriting, drafting, and
revision, and will provide feedback from classmates and the instructor. Students may not
take both FYWS 151 and FYWS 155.
155. First-Year Writing Seminar: Daily Themes.
Fall, Spring. Credits 4.
Degree Requirement: F2s.
An alternative to FYWS 151 offered to outstanding ﬁrst-year writers, by invitation from thePrograms of Study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53
94 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 PM
Director of College Writing. The course is limited to 12 students who meet as a class once
a week and individually with the instructor or in small groups with the Writing Fellow once
a week. Students will turn in 4 one-page themes each week. Some research will be
required, and students will use their daily themes as the basis for two longer papers: one
at mid term and the other at the end of the semester. Students may not take both FYWS
151 and FYWS 155.
Printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/interdisciplinary-study/ﬁrst-year-
writing-seminar
Humanities
The Life program and the Search program described below offer alternative ways to fulﬁll
the F1 Requirement in the College’s Foundation requirements.
Printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/interdisciplinary-study/humanities
Life: Then and Now
Staff:
Thomas Bremer , Department of Religious Studies
Patrick Gray , Department of Religious Studies 
Stephen R. Haynes , Department of Religious Studies
Kendra G. Hotz , Department of Religious Studies 
John C. Kaltner , Department of Religious Studies
Steven L. McKenzie , Department of Religious Studies
Bernadette McNary-Zak , Department of Religious Studies
Susan Satterﬁeld , Department of Ancient Mediterranean Studies
David Sick , Department of Ancient Mediterranean Studies
In the ﬁrst two courses of the Life: Then and Now program, the student is introduced to the
major methodological approaches to the study of religion represented in the “Life”
curriculum. The student selects the last course from a range of courses that apply these
speciﬁc methodological approaches to different aspects of religion. Fuller course
descriptions may be found in the departmental listings.
101-102. Biblical Texts and Contexts: Selected Topics.
Fall, Spring. Credits: 4 (per semester).
Degree Requirements: Life Then and Now, F1; F2i (RS 102 only)Programs of Study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53
95 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 PM
This two-course sequence of selected topics enables students to develop critical
knowledge of biblical texts and post-biblical traditions by helping them understand how
these works and their histories of reception inform interpretive contexts. Students will
acquire skills in critical thinking, analysis, reading, and writing that will equip them to
recognize the relevance of the academic study of biblical texts and religion. Selected
works from the biblical writings and afﬁliated literature will be discussed within the
framework of topics that will allow students to explore their own and others’ operative
assumptions about meaning and values.
Religious Studies 101-102 is a prerequisite for 200-level courses in the Religious Studies
Department. Humanities 101-102 can substitute for this prerequisite.
Final Courses.
The concluding courses in the “Life” curriculum allow the student to focus in particular
areas of the study of religion or philosophy. See the departmental listings under “Religious
Studies,” “Philosophy,” and “Ancient Mediterranean Studies” for speciﬁc courses in the Life
curriculum.
Printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/interdisciplinary-study/humanities
/life-then-and-now
The Search for Values in the Light of Western History
and Religion
Staff:
Geoffrey Bakewell , Department of Ancient Mediterranean Studies
Gordon Bigelow , Department of English
Elizabeth Bridges , Department of Modern Languages and Literatures
Miriam G. Clinton , Department of Art and Art History
Daniel E. Cullen , Department of Philosophy
Sarah Ifft Decker , Department of History
Erin Dolgoy , Department of Philosophy and Department of Politics and Law
Scott Garner , Department of Ancient Mediterranean Studies
Patrick Gray , Department of Religious Studies
Judith P. Haas , Department of English
Stephen R. Haynes , Department of Religious StudiesPrograms of Study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53
96 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 PM
Timothy Huebner , Department of History
Joseph Jansen , Department of Ancient Mediterranean Studies
Jonathan Judaken , Department of History
Ariel Lopez , Department of Ancient Mediterranean Studies
Laura Loth , Department of Modern Languages and Lituratures
David Mason , Media Studies Program
Bernadette McNary-Zak , Department of Religious Studies
Kenneth S. Morrell , Department of Ancient Mediterranean Studies
Vanessa Rogers , Department of Music
Sarah Rollens , Department of Religious Studies
Eric Sampson , Department of Philosophy
Susan Satterﬁeld , Department of Ancient Mediterranean Studies
David H. Sick , Department of Ancient Mediterranean Studies
Rebecca Tuvel , Department of Philosophy
Stephen H. Wirls , Department of Philosophy
Humanities 101-102-201. The Search for Values in the Light of Western
History and Religion.
Fall-Spring-Fall. Credits: 4-4-4.
Degree Requirements: F1.
The “Search” curriculum is a three-semester sequence of Humanities courses that
focuses on major works that have formed the western tradition. In a small, seminar
setting, Search students and faculty engage in sustained examination of vital questions
arising from an individual’s relationships to the natural world, human society, and the
products of human culture.  We approach these questions by interrogating central texts
within, and written in contestation of, western intellectual traditions, including Christianity,
Judaism, and Islam.  Students read the Hebrew Bible, the New Testament, and the Qur'an
in conjunction with other selected works from the ancient and medieval worlds. The texts
we study over the course of our three semesters speak directly to each other, often
radically critiquing the traditions out of which they emerge.   In Search, we critically
examine the assumptions that emerge from these disputed traditions, assumptions that
underlie cultures and institutions in the modern world.   Throughout, we stress the skills
that are central to the whole curriculum (careful reading, analytical writing, critical thinking
and discussion), and we equip students to enter into a lively and lifelong conversation of
ideas.  
HUM 101 and 102Programs of Study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53
97 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 PM
The ﬁrst semester of Search focuses on the ancient world and follows the history and
literature of the Israelites and the Greeks.   Texts include the ancient Sumerian Epic of
Gilgamesh, the Hebrew Bible, and the selected works of Homer, Thucydides, Plato, and
Aristotle.  The second semester of Search covers literature from the Hellenistic period to
the Middle Ages.   Texts include Virgil’s Aeneid, the New Testament, the Qur’an, and
Dante’s Divine Comedy. During the ﬁrst year of the course, all Search colloquia follow a
common syllabus; every 2-3 weeks, all Search students meet for a plenary lecture
delivered by one of the Search faculty.
HUM 201
The third semester of Search pursues the questions raised in the ﬁrst year as they play
out in the modern world. Students trace the roles of biblical and classical heritages in the
shaping of the values, character, and institutions of Western culture and its understanding
of self and world. Different sections follow different themes and disciplinary focuses
determined by the instructor.
Prerequisites : Humanities 101 is a prerequisite for Humanities 102. Humanities 102 is a
prerequisite for Humanities 201. These prerequisites may be satisﬁed alternatively by the
permission of the instructor.
Printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/interdisciplinary-study/humanities
/search-values-light-western-history-and-religion
Interdisciplinary Majors
Students interested in interdisciplinary study are encouraged to consider interdisciplinary
majors. The following interdisciplinary majors have been approved by the Faculty, and the
required courses have been deﬁned as listed below. Students who wish to declare any of
these established interdisciplinary majors may do so by ﬁling the normal Declaration of
Major form with the Ofﬁce of the Registrar. Any deviation from the program of study
outlined in the description must be approved by the chairpersons of the departments
involved.
Printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/interdisciplinary-
study/interdisciplinary-majors
Biomathematics
1. Required Mathematics and Computer Science courses (24 credits):
1. Math 122 (Integral Calculus) + 251 (Differential Equations)Programs of Study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53
98 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 PM
2. Math 211 (Intro Statistical Methods & Applications)
3. CS 141 (Computer Science I: Programming Fundamentals)
4. Math 214 (Discrete Math Modeling with Biological Applications)
5. Math 315 (Continuous Math Modeling with Biological Applications)
2. Required Biology courses (14 credits) :
1. Biology 130, 131L, 140, 141L (Intro Bio Sequence)
2. One of the following courses:
1. Biology 200 + 201L (Evolution)
2. Biology 304 + 304L (Genetics)
3. Biology 305 + 305L (Population Genomics)
4. Biology 315 + 315L (Ecology)
5. Biology 316 + 316L (Freshwater Ecology)
6. Biology 348 + 348L (Wildlife Biology)
3. Math Electives (8 credits): Select 2 courses from the following list in consultation with
the advisor (at least one at the 300 or 400 level):
1. Math 201 (Transition to Advanced Math)
2. Math 223 (Multivariable Calculus)
3. Math 261 (Linear Algebra)
4. Math 305 (Probability & Simulation)
5. Math 311 (Probability Theory)
6. Math 312 (Math Statistics)
7. Math 314 (Agent-Based Modeling)
8. Math 321 (Real Analysis)
9. Math 324 (Vector and Advanced Calculus)
10. Math 352 (Partial Differential Equations)Programs of Study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53
99 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 PM
11. Math 465 (Special Topics when appropriate)
12. CS 142 (Computer Science II: Object-Oriented Programming)
13. Math 451-452 (Math Research), total of 4 credits
4. Biology Electives (14 credits): Select 3 courses from the following list in consultation
with the advisor (2 must have a lab):
1. Biology courses at the 200 or 300 level [Biology 307 (Cell Biology) may combine
with BMB 310 (Methods in Cell Biology and Biochemistry) to satisfy a lab
elective]
2. Chemistry 315 (Biochemistry) [may combine with BMB 310 (Methods in Cell
Biology and Biochemistry) to satisfy a lab elective]
3. Chemistry 416 (Mechanisms of Drug Action)
4. Neuroscience 270 (Neuroscience) [may combine with Neuroscience 350
(Neuroscience Research Methods) to satisfy a lab elective]
5. Senior Research (4 credits):  
Normally, students will have two advisors: one who advises the mathematical
component of their senior research and one who advises the biological component of
their research. Each student will take four credits  of seminar, one credit in the spring
of their junior year, and three credits in  their senior year (all in one semester or
divided between fall and spring semesters).   Students may petition to substitute
Math 451/452 or participation in Research Fellowships/St. Jude Summer Plus
program for two terms before junior spring semester for credit for Math 386. See the
Math Chair for more details.
1. Math 386 (Junior Sem) or Math 451/452
2. Math 485, 486 (Senior Seminar)
6. Recommended Courses:
1. If considering grad school in Ecology it is strongly recommended that students
take Bio 315, CS 142, and Math 311.
2. If considering grad school in Mathematics, Biomathematics, or Mathematical
Ecology it is strongly recommended that students take Math 201, 261, and 321.
3. Students should consider Bio 214, or EnvS 160 as a means of fulﬁlling their
F-11 requirement.
4. Physics 111 + 113L (Fundamentals in Physics I) as appropriate to career goalsPrograms of Study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53
100 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 PM
5. Some classes that may be of interest:
6. Economics 407 (Game Theory)
7. History 105 (Special Topics: Disease & Epidemics) F2i, F3
8. History 270 (Global Environmental History) F3, F11
9. History 307 (Nature & War) F3
10. International Studies 340, 341 (Global Ecopolitics, Comparative Ecopolitics) F8
11. Philosophy 230  (Environmental Ethics)
12. Philosophy 303 (Medical Ethics) F1
Printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/interdisciplinary-
study/interdisciplinary-majors/biomathematics
Economics and Business
A total of sixty-two (62) credits as follows:
       1.   Economics 100 Introduction to Economics, 201 Intermediate Microeconomics, 202
Intermediate Macroeconomics, 290 Statistical Analysis for Economics and Business,  420
Econometrics, 486 Senior Seminar in Economics.
       2.   Business 241 Financial Accounting, 243 Managerial Accounting, 351 Corporate
Financial Management, 361 Management of Organizations, 371 Marketing Management,
486 Senior Seminar in Business. 
       3.   Four credits from:
             a.   ECON 250: Readings in Economics
             b.   ECON 265: Topics in Economics
             c.   ECON 305: Public Economics
             d. ECON 308: Industrial Organization
             e.   ECON 310: International Trade and Policy
             f.  ECON 311: International Financial EconomicsPrograms of Study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53
101 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 PM
             g.   ECON 312: Economic Development
             h.   ECON 317: Money and Banking
             i.   ECON 318: Economics of Crime and Corruption
             j.   ECON 323: Classical and Marxian Political Economy
             k.   ECON 331: Labor Economics
             l.    ECON 338: European Economic History
             m.   ECON 339: U.S. Economic History
             n.   ECON 343: Family Economics
             o.   ECON 345: Economics of Sports
             p.   ECON 349: Environmental and Natural Resource Economics
             q.   ECON 357: Economics of Risk, Uncertainty, and Information
             r.   ECON 377: Economics of Education
             s.   ECON 407: Game Theory
             t.  ECON 412: Data Management and Analysis (new course added last year)
             u.   ECON 440: Advanced Econometrics
             v.   ECON 465: Advanced Topics in Economics
       4.   One course from each of two of the following areas:
             a.   Accounting: Business   341 Intermediate Accounting I
             b.   Finance: Business 452 Cases in Managerial Finance, 454 International
Financial Management/Financial Analytics.
             c.   Management: Business  463 International Management, 466 Personnel and
Human Resource Management, 467 Diversity and Inclusion in the Workplace
             d.   Marketing: Business 472 Marketing Analytics and Metrics  , 473 International
Marketing, 474 Services Marketing.
             e.   Other: Business 481 Business Ethics and Social Responsibility, 483 Advanced
International Business Cases, 484 Social Impact of Business in South Africa   Programs of Study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53
102 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 PM
      5.   Math 115 Applied Calculus, 116 Calculus with Business Applications or 122 Integral
Calculus
       6.   Recommended: Mathematics 107 Linear Methods; Philosophy 225 Justice,
Equality, and Liberty; Media Studies 240 Public Speaking, Computer Science
141 Programming Fundamentals, 142 Object-Oriented Programming, Business 460
Internship, Economics 460 Internship.
Printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/interdisciplinary-
study/interdisciplinary-majors/economics-and-business
Economics and International Studies
A total of 15-16 courses (60-64 credits) as follows:
1. Economics 100, 201, 202, 290, 310, 312; either Economics 486 or International
Studies 485.
2. Economics 407 or 420.
3. International Studies 110, 120, 300,  and three additional courses at 200-level or
above. At least one 4-credit course should be selected from Area A - Global
Leadership, and  at least one 4-credit course should be selected from Area B -
Regional Leadership.
4. Mathematics 115, 116 or 122.
5. An appropriate foreign language through completion of the second year (202) or
demonstrated proﬁciency through the 202 level as indicated by an appropriate
proﬁciency test.
Printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/interdisciplinary-
study/interdisciplinary-majors/economics-and-international-studies
History and International Studies
A total of 12-13 courses (48-52 credits) as follows:
1.  HIST 300.
2.  Two History courses at the 300 or 400 level.Programs of Study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53
103 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 PM
3.  International Studies 110, 120, 270, 300.
4.  Economics 100.
5.  A total of three additional courses, including at least one from History and at least one
from International Studies.  Students must choose one of the following concentrations:
a.  Africa/Middle East:  HIST 105 (WHEN COURSE TOPIC IS FOCUSED ON THE
GEOGRAPHICAL REGION), HIST 271, HIST 272, HIST 275, HIST 276, HIST 277, INTS
243, INTS 244, INTS 245, INTS 251, INTS 252, INTS 253, INTS 254.
b.  Asia:   HIST 105 (WHEN COURSE TOPIC IS FOCUSED ON THE GEOGRAPHICAL
REGION), HIST 281, HIST 282, HIST 283, HIST 287, HIST 288, HIST 293, HIST 294,
INTS 260, INTS 261, INTS 262, INTS 263, INTS 264, INTS 395.
c.  Europe:   HIST 105 (WHEN COURSE TOPIC IS FOCUSED ON THE GEOGRAPHICAL
REGION), HIST 212, HIST 213, HIST 214, HIST 215, HIST 216, HIST 217, HIST 225,
HIST 226, HIST 229, INTS 280, INTS 281, INTS 282, INTS 283, INTS 284, INTS 285.
d.  Global/Comparative:   HIST 105 (WHEN COURSE TOPIC IS FOCUSED ON THE
GEOGRAPHICAL REGION), HIST 207, HIST 209, HIST 224, INTS 220, INTS 221, INTS
256, INTS 310, INTS 311, INTS 330, INTS 332, INTS 334, INTS 336, INTS 340, INTS
341, INTS 371, INTS 372, INTS 373, INTS 374, INTS 420, INTS 421, INTS 422, INTS
451, INTS 452.
e.  Latin America:  HIST 105 (WHEN COURSE TOPIC IS FOCUSED ON THE
GEOGRAPHICAL REGION), HIST 261, HIST 262, HIST 267, INTS 273, INTS 274.
6.  International Studies 485.   Senior paper to be written under the direction of one faculty
member from each department. The senior paper should pertain to the student’s
concentration.
7.  An appropriate foreign language through completion of the second year (202) or
demonstrated proﬁciency through the 202 level as indicated by an appropriate proﬁciency
test.
Qualiﬁed students wishing to pursue Honors can do so by fulﬁlling the requirements of the
interdisciplinary major and of the Honors Tutorial in either department.Programs of Study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53
104 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 PM
Printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/interdisciplinary-
study/interdisciplinary-majors/history-and-international-studies
Mathematics and Economics
A total of 14  courses (56  credits) as follows:
1. Economics 100, 201, 202, 290, 407, 420.
2. One course from Economics 305, 308, 310, 331, 343, 357, 412, 440.
3. Mathematics 122, 201, 223, 251, 261.
4. Mathematics 311 or 321.
5. Economics 486 or Mathematics 485 and 486. Senior projects must have a faculty
reader from both departments. The ﬁnal presentation of the senior project must be
made in the Senior Seminars of both departments. Students taking Math 485 and
486 are encouraged to take Math 386 (Junior Seminar) in the spring semester of
their junior year.
Qualiﬁed students wishing to pursue Honors can do so by fulﬁlling the requirements of the
interdisciplinary major and of the Honors Tutorial in either department.
Mathematics and economics majors seeking admission to graduate programs in
economics, operations research, statistics, or mathematical ﬁnance are advised to also
take Mathematics 312, Mathematics 431, Computer Science 141, Computer Science 142,
and possibly Business 351.
Printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/interdisciplinary-
study/interdisciplinary-majors/mathematics-and-economics
Music and Psychology
A total of 16 courses (64 credits) as follows:
1. Music Courses (6 courses, 8 performance credits = Two (2) 4-credit courses):   
  a. Theory & Musicianship:
◦ MUSC 204: Understanding Musicianship [F5]*
◦ Two (2)  300-level music theory courses (306-313)  
*If placement test determines this course is redundant, choose three 300-levelPrograms of Study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53
105 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 PM
music theory courses.
           b. History & Literature: One (1) course from:   
               MUSC 227: Western Art Music I [F3] OR MUSC 228: Western Art Music II [F3]  
           c. Performance:   
               Four (4) semesters of large ensembles (MUSC 181-184, 190-194 = 1 credit
each)  
               Four (4) semesters of applied lessons (MUSC 160-180 = 1 credit each)  
           d. Electives: Two (2) 4-credit courses
                1. One (1) music cognition/therapy topic course (MUSC 140-149 or MUSC
340-349)  
                2. Other courses should be selected from the following recommended list:
MUSC 103, 117-119, 130, 222, 227-228, 306, 310, or 414
NOTE:  Fine Arts Scholarship waivers for Applied Music fees are outlined in the award
letter which supersedes music major and minor fee waivers.
   2. Psychology Courses (7 courses):  
          a. Foundational Psychology Courses:   
                     PSYC 150: Foundational Issues in Psychology [F8]   
                     PSYC 200: Research Methods and Statistics (Sophomore year)  
                     PSYC 211: Statistical Methods [F6] (Sophomore year)  
          b. Perception: PSYC 216  
          c. Advanced Research Methods: One (1)  course from PSYC 350-353 (Junior year)  
          d. Two other courses chosen from one concentration:              
               Cognition:   
                         PSYC 306: Language and Communication  
                         PSYC 327: Cognitive Processes  
                         PSYC 345: Cognitive Neuroscience  
                         PSYC 451-452: Research Practicum (4 credits)  
                         NEURO 270: Neuroscience  
                         NEURO 318: Neuroscience of Brain Disorders  
               Applied:  
                         PSYC 220: Psychology of Health  
                         PSYC 222: Educational Psychology  
                         PSYC 224: Psychological Disorders  
                         PSYC 229: Developmental Psychology: Infant and Childhood [F11]  
                         PSYC 230: Adolescent Development   
                         PSYC 311: Counseling Psychology  Programs of Study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53
106 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 PM
                         PSYC 326: Learning and Motivation
   3. Senior Experience (4 credits)
Either MUSC 485-486 or PSYC 485 as recommended by advisor and topic availability.
The culminating Senior Seminar research project is required to integrate the ﬁelds of
Music and Psychology.
Printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/interdisciplinary-
study/interdisciplinary-majors/music-and-psychology
Political Science and International Studies
A total of 14-15 courses (56-60 credits) as follows:
1. International Studies:  110, 120,  300,  and three additional courses at 200-level or above.
At least one 4-credit course should be selected from Area A - Global Leadership,  and  at
least one 4-credit course should be selected from Area  B - Regional Leadership.
2. Politics and Law: PLAW 151; PLAW 340 or 360; another 300 level course from among
the following courses in American politics and policy (301, 305, 308, 318, 319, 320, 321,
330, 340, 360, 370); one of the following courses in political theory (212, 214, 218, 230,
314); one additional course at the 200 level or above. (PLAW 262,263, 264, do not count
toward the Political Science and International Studies Interdisciplinary major.)
3. Economics 100 or International Studies 311.
4. International Studies 270 or PLAW 270.
5. International Studies 485 or PLAW 485.
6. An appropriate foreign language through completion of the second year (202) or
demonstrated proﬁciency through the 202 level as indicated by an appropriate proﬁciencyPrograms of Study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53
107 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 PM
test.
Printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/interdisciplinary-
study/interdisciplinary-majors/political-science-and-international
Russian Studies and International Studies
A total of 14 courses (56 credits) as follows:
1. Russian 201, 202, 301, 302.
2. One of the following: Russian 205, Russian 285, Russian 410, History 229, or another
elective course on Russia or USSR (subject to the approval of the Russian Studies
Program Director).
3. International Studies 110, 120, 270, 300, and two additional courses at 200-level or
above. At least one 4-credit course should be selected from Area A - Global
Leadership, and  at least one 4-credit course should be selected from Area B - Regional
Leadership.
4. Economics 100 or International Studies 311.
5. International Studies 485.
Printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/interdisciplinary-
study/interdisciplinary-majors/russian-studies-and-international
Self-Designed Interdisciplinary Majors
The option of a self-designed interdisciplinary major is available for those students whose
academic goals may best be achieved by combining and integrating the work of two or
more academic departments. Like the College’s other interdisciplinary programs, the self-
designed interdisciplinary major exists to provide an appropriate structure for programs of
study that do not ﬁt within the bounds of existing departments and require an
interdisciplinary approach.
The majors currently offered by the College’s academic departments and interdisciplinary
programs are carefully designed and rigorously reviewed by the faculty for intellectual
depth and coherence. Students who wish to propose a self-designed course of study
should expect that their proposals will be held to the same standards. The self-designed
interdisciplinary major petition process therefore requires a signiﬁcant amount of time and
reﬂection. Students wishing to pursue this option will work closely with their advisingPrograms of Study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53
108 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 PM
faculty in the relevant departments to construct their proposal and to see their study
through to completion.
Students who wish to pursue a self-designed interdisciplinary major must complete the
required “Declaration of Interdisciplinary Major” form. In completing that form, students
should follow the steps below in order to meet the rigorous criteria for the proposed
program of study.
1. Consult with faculty members in the departments that will be combined in the major
to determine the feasibility of the interdisciplinary major. Consultation with the
Registrar is also recommended in order to secure an understanding of the approval
procedure.
2. Prepare, in consultation with those faculty members and departments, a petition
requesting the College Faculty’s approval of the interdisciplinary major. This petition
is addressed to the Chairperson of the Faculty Educational Program Committee. The
petition must contain the following items:
1. An essay that articulates the student’s rationale for the interdisciplinary major.
Simply explaining how courses in different departments are related is not a
sufﬁcient rationale. The rationale must speciﬁcally explain why the academic
goals of the self-designed major cannot be achieved through a combination of
majors and minor(s). The petitioner must demonstrate that only by integrating
work in the departments can those academic goals be realized. The importance
of this essay cannot be overemphasized. It is not only a statement of the
student’s reasons for choosing the proposed interdisciplinary major, but also a
philosophical and practical statement of (i) how the new major meets the same
rigorous standards as the College’s already-existing majors, (ii) how the
proposed course-plan will include truly “interdisciplinary” study, (iii) how, if there
are similar programs or majors at other comparable institutions, the proposed
plan for interdisciplinary study compares to those.
2. The Declaration of Interdisciplinary Major, including a complete listing of
courses that comprise the interdisciplinary major, with numbers, titles, and dates
when the courses are to be taken. Though it is customary that the number of
courses in each department will be fewer than what is expected of a major in
that department, it is essential that substantial advanced work is done in each
department. The proposed program of study must include a complete
description of how the “interdisciplinary” senior experience will be structured. It
must be clear how the departments involved in the major will be integrated into
the senior seminar, seminars, or capstone experience. Any self-designed
capstone experience should be explained in detail and should be comparable in
content, rigor, and methodology to the capstone experiences for existing majors.Programs of Study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53
109 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 PM
3. The Declaration of Interdisciplinary Major must be endorsed in writing by the
chairpersons of the concerned departments. This endorsement must include a
detailed assessment of the student’s rationale and of the student’s ability to
undertake and complete successfully the work projected in the petition. The
departmental endorsements should also specify who will serve as the principal
faculty advisor for the student. If the student’s petition includes coursework or other
projects outside of the participating departments’ normal course offerings, the
chairpersons should also note their awareness of those elements of the proposal and
give assurances that those or comparable opportunities will be available for the
student.
4. The entire Declaration of Interdisciplinary Major with the completed petition is
submitted to the Registrar for review before it is sent to the Education Program
Committee for a full review and ﬁnal determination. Incomplete Declarations will be
returned to the student without review.
5. Interdisciplinary majors must be declared and receive approval no later than midterm
of the spring semester of the junior year. It is expected that work on the petition,
interviews with faculty, and consultation with the Registrar should begin as early as
possible, but will take place no later than the fall semester of the junior year. The
student who submits an interdisciplinary major petition will have already declared a
major by midterm of the spring semester of the sophomore year. If the
interdisciplinary major can be worked out in time for the sophomore year deadline for
declaring a major, it should be submitted earlier.
6. Any proposed deviation from an approved interdisciplinary major must have
departmental approvals and the approval of the Education Program Committee
before changes are made in the course of study.
Printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/interdisciplinary-study/self-
designed-interdisciplinary-majors
International Studies
The Department of International Studies prepares students to understand international
politics, foreign policy making, political development, international law, international
organization, security and defense policy, and the politics and cultures of various countries
and regions of the world.
Printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/international-studiesPrograms of Study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53
110 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 PM
Areas of Concentration
Area A:  Global Leadership - includes courses numbered at the 300-level or 400-level
(excluding IS 300, IS 485, and IS 495-6)
- also includes IS 220, IS 221, and IS 256
Area B:  Regional Leadership - includes region-speciﬁc courses numbered at the 200-level
(excluding IS 235, IS 256, and IS 270)
Other Courses (these can be either A or B area courses):
133: Model United Nations
265-266: Selected Topics in International Studies
460: Internship in International Studies
470: Summer Internship Abroad (Mertie W. Buckman International Internship Program)
Printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/international-studies/areas-
concentration
Honors in International Studies
Required: Completing Honors in the Department of International Studies is comprised of
two semesters (Fall and Spring). Students must enroll in International Studies 485 in the
Fall semester of the year in which the student intends to complete the Honors Project and
gain departmental approval of a research proposal. Students will select an advisor who
will serve as ﬁrst reader.   The instructor teaching Senior Seminar will also serve as a
reader.   A faculty member from a department or program outside of International Studies
will serve as the third reader. Students should consult with  International Studies faculty
members and the Chair of the Department  about their intentions to pursue an honors
project during the spring semester prior to their senior year  and obtain a copy of the
“Honors in International Studies Guidelines.” A minimum GPA of 3.70 in all course work
and approval of the department are required.
Printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/international-studies/honors-
international-studies
International Studies: Faculty and Staff
ProfessorsPrograms of Study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53
111 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 PM
Stephen J. Ceccoli . 1998. P.K. Seidman Professor of Political Economy. B.A., Heidelberg
College; M.A., Ph.D., Washington University. (International relations, political economy,
comparative public policy.)
Shadrack W. Nasong’o . 2005.  B.A., M.A., University of Nairobi, Kenya; Ph.D.,
Northeastern University, Boston. (African politics, comparative politics, international
relations.)
Amy E. Risley . 2005.  Stanley J. Buckman Professor of International Studies. B.A.,
University of Wisconsin, Madison; M.A., New York University; Ph.D., University of Texas at
Austin. (Latin American politics, comparative politics, international relations.)
Nikolaos Zahariadis . 2016. Mertie Buckman Distinguished Professor of International
Studies. B.A., Slippery Rock University; M.A., Ph.D., University of Georgia. (European
Politics, International relations, comparative politics.)
Associate Professors
Chien-Kai Chen . 2013. Chair. B.A., National Taiwan University; M.A., The University of
Alabama, Tuscaloosa; Ph.D., Boston University. (East Asian Politics, Comparative Politics,
International Relations.)
Esen Kirdis.  2011. J.S. Seidman Research Fellow. B.A., Koc University, Istanbul, Turkey;
Ph.D., University of Minnesota, Twin Cities. (Middle East politics, Islamic politics,
international relations, comparative politics.)
Staff
Maya Robertson . 2021. B.S., Northwestern State University; M.S., Grambling State
University.
Printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/international-studies
/international-studies-faculty-and-staff
Requirements for a Major in International Studies
A total of  forty-eight (48) credits as follows:
1. Required courses: International Studies 110, 120, 270, 300, 485.Programs of Study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53
112 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 PM
2. Economics 100 or International Studies 311.
3. Twenty (20) additional credits in International Studies with at least 8 credits from each
area (A - Global Leadership, and B - Regional Leadership).
4. Completion of courses in a  foreign language through the second full year at the college
level (through the 202-level). Any 4-credit foreign language course above the 202-level
and taught in the foreign language could also be used to satisfy the language requirement.
5. Each student in the major will be required to complete an international experience.
There are several ways to complete this requirement subject to the approval of the
Department Chair. Students may take a study abroad course approved by the Rhodes
College study abroad ofﬁce; an internship in International Studies, INTS 460; or the Model
UN course, INTS 133, four times. Any such international experience with course credit
would count toward No. 3 above.
The Department of International Studies offers a number of interdisciplinary majors in
collaboration with other departments. These majors include International
Studies/Economics; International Studies/History; International Studies/Political Science;
and International Studies/Russian Studies. 
Printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/international-studies
/requirements-major-international-studies
Requirements for a Minor in International Studies
A total of twenty-four (24) credits as follows:
1. International Studies 110, 120.
2. Four additional courses at the 200-level or above. At least one course should be
selected from Area A - Global Leadership, and at least one course should be selected
from Area B - Regional Leadership.
Printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/international-studies
/requirements-minor-international-studies
Jewish, Islamic, and Middle Eastern Studies ProgramPrograms of Study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53
113 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 PM
Jewish, Islamic and Middle East Studies illuminates the general questions of our liberal
arts and sciences curriculum from the purview of Jews, Muslims, and other Middle
Easterners. The program allows students interested in Jewish and Islamic religion and
Middle Eastern history, politics, and culture to focus on a deeper understanding of the
contribution of Judaism and Islam to the development of world civilizations. Part of what
distinguishes this program from others like it nationally is that it requires students to
understand the entangled and interconnected histories, cultures, and politics of Jews,
Muslims, and other religious groups over time and in different contexts, as well as the
similarities and conﬂicts between these groups. Furthermore, this program seeks to
incorporate college-wide conversations about integration and diversity on campus with the
rigors of academic investigation. This program houses three different minors in (1) Jewish
Studies, (2) Islamic and Middle East Studies, and (3) Jewish, Islamic and Middle East
Studies.
Printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/jewish-islamic-and-middle-
eastern-studies-program
Jewish, Islamic, and Middle East Studies Program
Committee
Etty Terem, Department of History (Chair)
Esen Kirdis, Department of International Studies
Jonathan Judaken, Department of History
John Kaltner, Department of Religious Studies
Raissa A von Doetinchem de Rande, Department of Religious Studies
Sarah Ifft Decker, Department of History
Printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/jewish-islamic-and-middle-
eastern-studies-program/jewish-islamic-and-middle-east
Requirements for a Minor in Islamic and Middle East
Studies
A total of twenty (20) credits wherein:
1. Students will take at least one course in each ﬁeld based on the following categories:Programs of Study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53
114 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 PM
1. Historical
• ART 209: Art and Architecture of the Ancient Near East and Egypt
• HIST 105: Special Topics (when subject matter pertains to Islamic and Middle East
Studies)
◦ Examples: Pharaonic Egypt; Egypt after the Pharaohs; Egypt in Late Antiquity;
Terrorism, Torture, and Anti-Colonialism: The Algerian War of Independence;
Race and Racism
• HIST 223: The Fall of the Roman Empire, 300-700 CE
• HIST 275: The Making of the Modern Middle East
• HIST 276: Re-Making the Twentieth Century Middle East
• HIST 277: Modern Islamic Thought
• HIST 375: Islamic History and Civilization
• HIST 475: Colonial Encounters in North Africa and Beyond
• SPAN 365: Christians, Muslims, and Jews in Spain: Past and Present (taught in
Spanish)
  
2. Cultural:
• RELS 101: The Bible: Texts and Contexts (when subject matter pertains to Islamic
and Middle East Studies)
◦ Examples: The Bible and the Qur’an; The Bible and Islam
• RELS 258: Topics in the History of Religions (when subject matter pertains to Islamic
and Middle East Studies)
◦ Examples: Introduction to Islam, Muslim-Christian Relations
• RELS 277: Selected Topics in Hebrew Bible/Old Testament
◦ Example: Biblical Figures in the Qur’an
3. Political:
• INTS 243: Governments & Politics of the Middle East
• INTS 244: Issues in Middle East Politics
• INTS 245: US Foreign Policy in the Middle East
• INTS 334: Religion & PoliticsPrograms of Study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53
115 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 PM
2. Students will take at least one course in the following departments: History,
International Studies, and Religious Studies
3. Students will take at least one upper 300-level course or 400-level course
4. Students will take one Jewish, Islamic and Middle East Studies (JIME) course OR
one course in the Jewish Studies minor
Note: RELS 276 and 277 and HIST 105 may be repeated with permission of instructor
and/or program committee.
Printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/jewish-islamic-and-middle-
eastern-studies-program/requirements-minor-islamic-and
Requirements for a Minor in Jewish Studies
A total of twenty (20) credits drawn from the following courses in at least two different
departments:
1. 1. A maximum of three courses at the 100-level or 200-level:
• ◦ RELS 101-102: The Bible: Texts and Contexts (when subject matter pertains to
Jewish Studies)
▪ example: The Hebrew Bible and its Reception
◦ RELS 232: Holocaust
◦ RELS 253: Judaism
◦ RELS 260: Archeology & Hebrew Bible (Religious Studies 200)
◦ RELS 276-277: Selected Topics in Hebrew/Bible/Old Testament (when subject
matter pertains to Jewish Studies)
▪ example: The Bible and Empire
◦ HEBR 201: Hebrew
◦ HIST 105: Special Topics (when subject matter pertains to Jewish Studies)
▪ Example: Race and Racism
1. 2. At least one course at the 300-level or 400-level:
• ◦ RELS 300-301: Selected Topics in Religious Studies (when subject matter
pertains to Jewish Studies)Programs of Study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53
116 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 PM
▪ example: Atypical Biblical Prophets
◦ HIST 405: Anti-Semitism
◦ HIST 320: Modern Jewish Thought and Culture
◦ HIST 421/FREN 335: Representing Racism in French Literature and Culture:
The Jewish Question
1. 3. One Jewish, Islamic and Middle East Studies (JIME) course OR one course
from the Islamic and Middle East Studies minor
Note: RELS 276 and 277 and HIST 105 may be repeated with permission of instructor
and/or program committee.
Printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/jewish-islamic-and-middle-
eastern-studies-program/requirements-minor-jewish-studies
Requirements for a Minor in Jewish, Islamic and Middle
East Studies
A total of twenty (20) credits wherein:
1. Students will take two courses in Jewish Studies
2. Students will take two courses in Islamic & Middle East Studies
3. Students must take at least one 300-level or 400-level course from either the Jewish
Studies or Islamic and Middle East Studies minor or a Jewish, Islamic and Middle
East Studies (JIME) course
4. Students must take courses in at least two different departments
Note: RELS 276 and 277 and HIST 105 may be repeated with permission of instructor
and/or program committee
Printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/jewish-islamic-and-middle-
eastern-studies-program/requirements-minor-jewish-islamic
Latin American and Latinx StudiesPrograms of Study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53
117 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 PM
Through interdisciplinary and transdisciplinary work, Latin American and Latinx Studies
majors and minors critically examine the wealth of experiences, cultural productions  and
histories of Latin America and the Latinx worlds. After an integrated Introduction to Latin
American and Latinx Studies, the curriculum brings together courses in the ﬁelds of
Anthropology, Sociology, Economics, Education, Health Equity, History, Modern
Languages (Spanish and Portuguese), Music, International Studies, Urban Studies, and
Psychology among others, and includes community-based learning opportunities in
Memphis, in the U.S, and abroad.
Printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/latin-american-and-latinx-studies
Honors in Latin American Studies
1. Completion of all requirements for the Latin American Studies major.
2. Completion of Latin American Studies 495-496.
3. Completion and public presentation of a substantial research project.
Project proposal must be approved by the Latin American Studies Committee by April of
the junior year.
Printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/latin-american-and-latinx-studies
/honors-latin-american-studies
Latin American Studies: Program Committee
• Elizabeth Pettinaroli, Department of Modern Languages and Literatures (Chair)
• Bruno Badia, Department of Economics
• Amy Benson, English Department/Creative Writing
• Sarah Boyle, Department of Biology
• Joy Brooke Fairﬁeld, Media Studies Program
• Eric Henager, Department of Modern Languages and Literatures
• Andrea Jacobo, Health Equity
• Laura Kelly, Educational Studies
• Francisco Lara, Department of Music
• Michael LaRosa, Department of History
• Jeanne Lopiparo, Department of Anthropology and Sociology
• Nina Morais, German Studies
• Jaqueline Oliveira, Department of EconomicsPrograms of Study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53
118 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 PM
• Amy Risley, Department of International Studies
Printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/latin-american-and-latinx-studies
/latin-american-studies-program-committee
Requirements for a Major in Latin American and Latinx
Studies
A total of forty-two (42) credits as follows:
1. Latin American and Latinx Studies 200: Introduction to Latin American and Latinx
Studies.
2. Latin American and Latinx Studies 485: Senior Seminar.
3. Nine of the following courses from at least four different departments, and at least 1
course at the 300-level or above. No more than three courses in any one department
may count toward the major:
• Region speciﬁc courses (Category A, at least 30 credits or more)
• Discipline speciﬁc courses with LALS attribute (Category B, 12 credits maximum)
                 And other courses by approval of the Chair of the LALS Program, Professor
Elizabeth Pettinaroli.
       Questions: Contact Prof. Elizabeth Pettinaroli Pettinaroli@pettinarolie@rhodes.edu
Printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/latin-american-and-latinx-studies
/requirements-major-latin-american-and-latinx
Requirements for a Minor in Latin American and Latinx
Studies
A total of twenty-two (22) credits as follows:
1. Latin American and Latinx Studies 200
2. Five courses from at least three different departments:Programs of Study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53
119 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 PM
• Category A-Region speciﬁc courses (at least 12 credits or more)
• Category B-Discipline speciﬁc courses with LALS attribute (10 credits maximum)
                  And other courses by approval of the Chair of the LALS Program, Professor
Elizabeth Pettinaroli.
       Questions: Contact Prof. Elizabeth Pettinaroli Pettinaroli@pettinarolie@rhodes.edu
Printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/latin-american-and-latinx-studies
/requirements-minor-latin-american-and-latinx
Liberal Arts in Prison
The Undergraduate Certiﬁcate in Liberal Arts is available to students participating in the
Liberal Arts in Prison Program.   The Certiﬁcate is a 4-course, 12-credit undergraduate
certiﬁcate.  The overall goals of the Liberal Arts in Prison program are
1) to expose incarcerated students to quality postsecondary education, which research
shows can lower inmate recidivism by as much as 40% 
2) to enhance the lives of incarcerated men and women, the vast majority of whom will
return to their home communities in Tennessee 
3) to offer foundational courses that are transferrable to any higher education institution
4) to increase the aspiration for postsecondary educational achievement among children
and other family members of incarcerated students.
Requirements for the Undergraduate Certiﬁcate in Liberal Arts:
A total of 12 credits and 4 Classes:
HUM 010   Culture and Values I
HUM 020   Culture and Values II
HUM 030   Culture and Values III
HUM 040   Culture and Values IV
Printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/liberal-arts-prisonPrograms of Study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53
120 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 PM
Master of Science in Accounting
Rhodes College offers a 32-credit program of study in accounting and business leading to
the Master of Science in Accounting degree. The M.S. in Accounting is a professional
master’s degree designed to provide a mature understanding of accepted professional
practices in the ﬁeld of accounting and to support entry and advancement in the various
ﬁelds of professional accounting.
Additional Information
The M.S. in Accounting program ofﬁce hours are generally 8:30 a.m. - 4:00 p.m. Monday
through Friday (CST). For additional information, contact:
Dr. Wendy Bailey
Director of M.S. in Accounting Program
901-843-3096
baileyw@rhodes.edu
Printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/master-science-accounting
Academic Regulations
The M.S. in Accounting program abides by the same academic regulations as the
undergraduate program at Rhodes, with the exceptions noted below.
Registration
Qualiﬁcation as a full-time, degree student requires registration for a minimum of eight (8)
credits in a semester. Degree-seeking students who register for seven (7) credits or less in
any one semester are classiﬁed as part-time students.
Pass-Fail
A student may enroll in a class on a pass-fail basis. Permission of the instructor and the
Director of the M.S. in Accounting is required and must be obtained during the ﬁrst three
weeks of the class in a semester. The Pass/Fail option may not be used to satisfy any of
the graduate course requirements for the M.S. in Accounting degree.
Academic Probation and SuspensionPrograms of Study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53
121 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 PM
To maintain acceptable scholastic standing and to graduate, a student must have an
overall grade point average of 3.000 (B) for all graduate work attempted. The Graduate
Committee places on academic probation any student whose cumulative grade point
average at the end of a semester falls below the minimum standard. Notiﬁcation of
academic probation will be printed on the student grade report. A student on academic
probation is not considered to be in good academic standing. Such students are ineligible
to participate in some extracurricular activities, including intercollegiate athletics. A student
is removed from academic probation upon attainment of a 3.000 average in graduate
courses. A student placed on academic probation because of a grade point average below
3.000 has one academic semester of course work to raise his or her average to the
required 3.000. If the grade point average is not raised to a 3.000, he or she may be
dropped from the program. Any student who earns a D or an F in any graduate course
may be dismissed immediately from the program.
Printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/master-science-accounting
/academic-regulations
Admission
Admissions Procedure
A student who wishes to apply for admission to the M.S. program complete an application
from the Rhodes College website. All applicants for admission to the M.S. in Accounting
program are required to submit transcripts from all colleges attended and three letters of
reference.  All applicants to the graduate program must have an earned baccalaureate
from an accredited institution before beginning the program.
Standardized Tests
Non-domestic applicants are required to take the Graduate Management Admissions Test
(GMAT). Potential students may choose to submit a GMAT score as part of the application
package. Any student planning to apply to the program for fall admission should plan to
take the test no later than December so that his or her scores will be available for the
Graduate Admissions Committee by March 1.  Test application forms may be obtained
from some colleges and universities or from the GMAT website at www.mba.com .
Applicants whose university instruction was not in English are also required to take the
Test of English as a Foreign Language and achieve a score of 550 or above.
Provisional Admission
A limited number of students who would be denied admission based on test scores, letters
of recommendation, personal interviews and transcripts may be admitted provisionally toPrograms of Study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53
122 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 PM
the program if they can demonstrate high probability of success in the program and
likelihood of outstanding performance in the profession of accounting in some other
manner. Other criteria may include, for example, a record of outstanding performance in a
job with increasing levels of responsibility over time. Any student provisionally admitted to
the program must attain a grade point average of at least a 3.00 (B) on the ﬁrst twelve
hours of the program completed in order to remain in the program.
Admission of Special Students (Non-degree Candidates)
Students who give evidence of sufﬁcient ability may be admitted as special students to a
course offered as part of the M.S. in Accounting curriculum. Special students may take no
more than two courses. After two courses, which may total no more than eight credits, the
student must make formal application to the M.S. in Accounting program and be accepted
into it before taking any additional graduate courses. An undergraduate student in his or
her senior year may petition the graduate committee to enroll in a graduate course as a
special student. In such a case, no graduate credit will be granted for courses used to
satisfy undergraduate requirements. A student may apply no more than a total of four
graduate credits earned as a special student and/or for transfer credit toward the
requirements for the M.S. in Accounting at Rhodes.
Readmission of Students
The M.S. in Accounting degree must be completed within three academic years from the
date of initial enrollment as a degree candidate. Failure to complete the degree
requirements within this time will result in being dropped from the program. Any student
who wants to continue the program after being dropped must petition the Director for
reinstatement.
Printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/master-science-accounting
/admission
Expenses and Financial Aid
The tuition charges, regulations for payment and withdrawal, activity fees, and special
fees and deposits for the M.S. in Accounting are the same as for the undergraduate
program at Rhodes. These charges and policies are outlined in the “Expenses” portion of
the catalogue. Room charges and policies are also the same as those for the
undergraduate programs; however, on-campus rooms will be made available to graduate
students only after all undergraduate demand has been satisﬁed.
Financial AidPrograms of Study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53
123 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 PM
Financial assistance for students in the M.S. in Accounting program will primarily be in the
form of loans and scholarships. Other grants or assistance may be available on a need
basis.
Loans
Graduate students are currently eligible for Federal Stafford Loans. Federal Stafford
Loans are made on an unsubsidized basis, and the student is responsible for interest
payment during periods of enrollment. Repayment begins six months after the student
graduates or ceases to be enrolled at least half-time.  
Anyone interested in the student loan program should contact:
Ofﬁce of Financial Aid
Rhodes College
2000 N. Parkway
Memphis, TN 38112-1690
Telephone 901-843-3810
Scholarships
All applicants are automatically considered for a departmental scholarship with no
additional forms required to be ﬁled. Departmental scholarships for students in the M.S. in
Accounting program are merit based; ﬁnancial need is not a consideration. Selection for
a scholarship is based upon the candidate’s academic record, personal achievements,
and promise of success in accounting.
Printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/master-science-accounting
/expenses-and-ﬁnancial-aid
Master in Accounting: Faculty and Staff
ASSOCIATE PROFESSORS
Wendy Bailey . 2021. Director, M.S. in Accounting Program. B.S., Washington University
St. Louis; M.S., University of Colorado-Boulder; Ph.D., University of Pittsburgh
(Accounting)
Dee Birnbaum . 1991. B.A., State University of New York at Stony Brook; M.B.A., Baruch
College; M.Phil., Ph.D., City University of New York. (General management; human
resource management.)
Kayla D. Booker . 2015. B.B.A., M.P.A., Ph.D., Jackson State University. C.P.A.Programs of Study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53
124 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 PM
(Accountancy.)
Sujan M. Dan . 2013. B.Tech, Kerala University, India; M.S., Ph.D., Texas A&M University.
(Marketing.)
Denis Khantimirov.  2015. B.A., North Ossetian State University, Russia; M.B.A.,
University of Nevada, Las Vegas; Ph.D., Old Dominion University. (Marketing) 
Kelly P. Weeks.  2015. B.A., Rhodes College; M.A. and Ph.D., The University of Memphis.
(Management)
Andrey Zagorchev . 2013. B.S., M.S., Plovdiv University, Bulgaria; M.B.A., Wright State
University; Ph.D., Lehigh University. (Finance.)
ASSISTANT PROFESSORS
Jade O. Planchon . 2012. B.A., Rhodes College; M.B.A., Columbia University. (Finance.)
PART-TIME ASSOCIATE PROFESSOR
Milton L. Lovell . 2003. B.S., J.D., University of Mississippi. LL.M., New York University
School of Law. Chief Financial Ofﬁcer and General Counsel, nexAir, LLC (Accountancy;
taxation.)
PART-TIME INSTRUCTOR
STAFF
Hannah Guess.  2020. Departmental Assistant. B.A. and M.A., University of Memphis.
Printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/master-science-accounting
/master-accounting-faculty-and-staff
Requirements for the M.S. Degree
A total of thirty (32) credits as follows:
Required courses or the equivalent substitute. (28 credits):
1. Business 641: Seminar in Financial Accounting Theory and Research.Programs of Study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53
125 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 PM
2. Business 643: Seminar in Accounting Control.
3. Business 644: Accounting for Governmental and Not-for-Proﬁt Entities.
4. Business 645: Taxation of Business Organizations.
5. Business 646: Consolidations and Advanced Accounting Topics.
6. Business 647: Legal and Regulatory Environment of Business.
7. Business 648: Systems Auditing.
Elective course. (4 credits) One 500- or 600-level course in the Department of Business.
If students have sufﬁcient accounting courses to take the CPA examination or equivalent
professional examination (e.g., CMA examination, CFA examination), they may choose up
to 4 credits of BUS 675: Professional Development and Exam Preparation.
Changes in Degree Requirements
A student may satisfy the requirements for an M.S. in Accounting degree as described in
any catalogue that has been in effect during the student’s enrollment in the M.S. program.
Students readmitted to Rhodes may graduate under requirements in effect during the
original period of enrollment or by following a program incorporating features of the current
and the earlier degree requirements and approved by the Graduate Committee. For
students electing to graduate under earlier degree requirements, there is no guarantee
that the courses speciﬁed in those requirements will be offered.
Printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/master-science-accounting
/requirements-ms-degree
The Educational Program
The graduate program builds upon the undergraduate study of accounting by introducing
more complex accounting practices and reasoning into the functional areas of accounting:
cost, tax, auditing and advanced ﬁnancial. The graduate program also addresses the legal
environment of business and business ethics, accounting research, and the theory and
methodology of the accounting discipline. It is central to the mission of the program that
students be able to communicate effectively, both orally and in writing. A signiﬁcant
component of all graduate courses will be oral presentations and discussions as well as
written assignments.
The CurriculumPrograms of Study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53
126 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 PM
Core courses and prerequisites. The following courses or their equivalents are required
before beginning the graduate program. The graduate committee will evaluate a student’s
transcript to determine whether a core course requirement has been met. At the
committee’s discretion, a student may be allowed to take core courses marked with an
asterisk (*) concurrently with graduate coursework:
1. Financial Accounting.
2. Managerial Accounting.
3. Intermediate Accounting I and II.
4. Federal Income Tax .*
5. Auditing.*
6. Introduction to Economics.
Area courses. A student must complete at least one course, either graduate or
undergraduate, in each of the following areas:
1. Finance.
2. Management or Marketing.
Printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/master-science-accounting
/educational-program
Transfer Credit
No more than a total of four  graduate credits earned at another institution and/or graduate
credit earned as a special student (see above) may be counted toward the M.S. in
Accounting at Rhodes. A minimum grade of B- must be earned for any course credit to be
transferred.
Transfer Credit Guidelines. The following guidelines are used in evaluating academic work
from other institutions for graduate transfer credit.
1. The institution at which the course work is taken must be an accredited college or
university.
2. Correspondence courses and distance learning (Internet) courses will not be
accepted for meeting the program’s prerequisites (except as approved by the
director), area courses, or degree requirements.Programs of Study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53
127 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 PM
3. To be accepted for credit, each course must be judged comparable in terms of
content and quality to a course in the graduate curriculum at Rhodes. The Program
Director makes these judgments.
4. All course work taken at other institutions for which Rhodes receives a transcript will
be evaluated for transfer credit, and if acceptable, will be posted to the student’s
record.
5. A maximum of 4 credits (1 credit = 1 semester hour) will be accepted toward the
Rhodes M.S. in Accounting degree. Transfer credits based on a quarter system are
converted to the Rhodes credit basis using the formula that one quarter hour equals
two-thirds credit. Fractional transfer credits will be credited.
6. Transfer credits are not accepted if the grade is C+ or below. Transfer credits are
credited to the Rhodes transcript as credits only; they are not used to determine the
grade point average.
7. Transfer credit may be used to satisfy M.S. degree requirements.
Printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/master-science-accounting
/transfer-credit
Mathematics and Statistics
The Department of Mathematics and Statistics offers students numerous opportunities to
develop quantitative reasoning, critical-thinking, problem-solving, and communication
skills through its curriculum and extracurricular activities.
Printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/mathematics-and-statistics
Honors in Mathematics
Requirements:
1. Fulﬁllment of the requirements for the major.
2. Honors Tutorial: 495 and 496.
3. Approval by the department is required.
Students should consult with a faculty member about their intentions to pursue an honorsPrograms of Study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53
128 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 PM
project before the end of their Junior year.
Printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/mathematics-and-statistics
/honors-mathematics
Mathematics and Statistics: Faculty and Staff
Professors
Christopher Mouron . 2002. B.S., Lafayette College; M.S. and Ph.D., Texas Tech
University. (Topology, continuum theory, discrete dynamical systems.)
Chris Seaton . 2004. B.A., Kalamazoo College; Ph.D., University of Colorado at Boulder.
(Differential geometry, differential topology, orbifolds, Lie groupoids, singular symplectic
reduction, invariant theory.)
Associate Professors
Ibrahim Abdelrazeq . 2015. B.S., Yarmouk University; M.S., New Mexico State University;
Ph.D., University of Ottawa. (Time series analysis, ﬁnancial and actuarial mathematics,
parametric and nonparametric goodness of ﬁt tests.)
Erin N. Bodine . 2010. E.C. Ellett Professorship of Mathematics and Computer Science.
B.S. and B.A., Harvey Mudd College; Ph.D., University of Tennessee, Knoxville. (Optimal
control theory, mathematical ecology, differential equations, discrete difference equations,
individual and agent based modeling.)
Eric Gottlieb . 1998. B.S., Antioch College; M.S., University of Washington; Ph.D.,
University of Miami. (Algebraic combinatorics.)
Assistant Professors
Kyle Dempsey . 2023. B.S., Lambuth University; M.S. and Ph.D., University of Memphis.
(educational games, distance education, child sexual abuse prevention.)
Erika Parr.  2021. B.A., University of Dallas; Ph.D., Arizona State University. (Mathematics
education)Programs of Study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53
129 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 PM
Printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/mathematics-and-statistics
/mathematics-and-statistics-faculty-and-staff
Planning a Major
Students considering a major in Mathematics should contact the Chair or another member
of the department as early as possible to ensure progress is being made toward the major.
More information can be found at the department’s web site: www.rhodes.edu/mathcs .
For reasonable progress toward a major in Mathematics, a student should begin the
Calculus sequence (Math 112, 122 and 223) at the appropriate level in the ﬁrst year, and
complete the sequence before the Spring of the second year; and complete Math 201 in
the ﬁrst year or second year.
Printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/mathematics-and-statistics
/planning-major
Requirements for a Major in Mathematics
A total of forty-nine (49) credits as follows:
1. Mathematics 122, 201, 223, 261, 386, and four credits of 485 and/or 486.
2. Mathematics 386; students may petition to substitute 451/2 or participation in
Research Fellowships/St. Jude Summer Plus program for two terms before junior
spring semester. See the department chair for more details.
3. Seven additional four-credit courses from among Computer Science 141 and
mathematics courses numbered above 200 (excluding 235) including at least four
courses numbered above 300 (excluding 460, 495, and 496) with at least one course
from each of the following breadth categories (where one course may count for more
than one category):
◦ Statistics : Mathematics 211, 305, 311
◦ Modeling : Mathematics 212, 214, 305,  315, 330; Computer Science 350;
Economics 407
◦ Proof : Mathematics 311, 321, 362, 431, 482; Computer Science 350 Programs of Study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53
130 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 PM
Printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/mathematics-and-computer-
science/requirements-major-mathematics
Requirements for a Minor in Mathematics
A total of twenty-four (24) credits as follows:
1. Mathematics 122.
2. Five additional four-credit mathematics courses numbered above 200, excluding 235,
including at least one course numbered above 300. Computer Science 350 can be
used as a mathematics course numbered above 300.
Printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/mathematics-and-computer-
science/requirements-minor-mathematics
Requirements for a Minor in Statistics
A total of twenty  (20) credits as follows:
1. One course from: Math 211, Psych 211, or Econ 290.
2. Math 212.
3. Three additional courses from: Math 235, 305, 307, 311, 312, 330, 331, 333;
Business 472;  Econ 420; INTD 225 (Geographic Information Systems).
Students planning to pursue graduate study in statistics are strongly encouraged to select
Math 311 and Math 312 from the courses listed above and to take:
1. Math 112, 122, 223, or equivalent three course calculus sequence.
2. Math 201 Transitions to Advanced Mathematics.
3. Math 261 Linear Algebra.
4. Math 321 Real Analysis.
Printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/mathematics-and-statistics
/requirements-minor-statistics
Media StudiesPrograms of Study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53
131 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 PM
The mission of the Media Studies Program is to enable students to become astute
scholars, producers, and consumers of visual media. From ﬁlm to TV to digital and social
media, our worlds are saturated with and mediated by visual communications. Media
Studies courses equip students with: 1) critical tools for critiquing visual media, 2) creative
capabilities for producing digital art, and 3) practical communication skills for participating
in globalized media networks. Interdisciplinary by design, the Media Studies Program is
supported by faculty from three divisions—Fine Arts, Humanities, and Social Sciences—in
order to cover media theories and practices in the broadest sense and stress digital
literacy and ﬂuency across multiple media. Its forward-thinking approach emphasizes
interdisciplinarity, a globalized curriculum, and career readiness.
Printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/media-studies
Media Studies: Afﬁliated Faculty
Rashna Richards , Department of English, Chair
Afﬁliated Faculty
John Bass , Department of Music 
Marshall Boswell , Department of English
Karl Erickson , Department of Art
Joy Broke Fairﬁeld , Media Studies Program
Han Li , Department of Modern Languages and Literatures
Bradley Harris , Media Studies Program
Charles Hughes , Urban Studies Program
Sarah Ifft Decker , Department of History
Sasha Kostina , Department of Modern Languages and Literatures
Michael LaRosa , Department of History
Laura Loth , Department of Modern Languages and Literatures
David Mason , Media Studies ProgramPrograms of Study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53
132 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 PM
J. David Maxson , Media Studies Program
David McCarthy , Department of Art
Samson Ndanyi , Department of History 
Scott Newstok , Department of English
Clara Pascual-Argente , Department of Modern Languages and Literatures
Evelyn Perry , Department of Anthropology and Sociology
Rebecca Tuvel , Department of Philosophy
Earl Wright II , Department of Anthropology and Sociology
Yinyin Xue , Department of Modern Languages and Literatures
Shaolu Yu , Urban Studies Program
Nikolaos Zahariadis , Department of International Studies
Lynn Zastoupil , Department of History
Printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/media-studies/media-studies-
afﬁliated-faculty
Requirements for a Major in Media Studies
A total of 40 credits as follows:  
1. MST 202: Topics in Media Studies OR Art 102: Intro to Digital Art (4 credits)
2. MST 385: Film and Media Theory (4 credits)
3. MST 485: Senior Seminar in Media Studies (4 credits)
4. 16 credits in one of the following two concentrations:  
A. Film Studies
• Ancient Mediterranean Studies 285: Classical Myth and Its Reception in ModernPrograms of Study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53
133 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 PM
Film  
• Chinese 207: Orientalism and Global China on Screen
• Chinese 216/Urban Studies 265: Asian Urbanization through Cinema
• Chinese 220/320: Contemporary Chinese Cinema
• English 190: Shakespeare on Screen
• English 380: Children's Literature and Media
• English 381: African American Film
• English 381: Film Adaptation
• French 334: French and Francophone Cinema
• German 240/340: German Cinema
• History 105: Black Cinema
• History 105: British Empire through Film
• History 105: History of Latin America through Film
• History 105: Medieval at the Movies
• History 105: Sex and Death in African Cinema
• Media Studies 380: American Television
• Russian 400: Russian Film
• Spanish 414: Cinema of Spain
B. Media Production
• Art 105: Painting OR Art 107: Sculpture
• Art 110: Film and Experimental Video Production
• Art 116: Digital Animation
• Art 202: Intermediate Digital Art
• Art 216: 3D Animation/Virtual Realities
• Art 302: Advanced Digital Art
• Art 386: Experiments in Media and Methods
• English 204: Introduction to Screenwriting
• Media Studies 120: Acting for New Media 
• Media Studies 245: Screenwriting
• Media Studies 250: Podcasting
• Media Studies 265: LGBTQ+ Culture in Media 
• Music 222: Music Technology
• Music 323: Audio Engineering: History, Theory, Practice
• Music 365: Advanced Topics in Music Technology
• Urban Studies 262: Music and Community in Memphis
• Urban Studies 382: Music and Community in Memphis
5. Electives (12 credits)Programs of Study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53
134 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 PM
• Any courses from the  other Media Studies concentration
• Anthropology/Sociology 333: Sociology of Hip-Hop
• Anthropology/Sociology 335: Social Class in the United States
• Art 245: Guernica and Antiwar Art
• English 264: Race, Media, and Culture
• History 105: Elvis Presley and America
• History 305: History of American Popular Music
• International Studies 256: Weapons of Mass Deception
• Media Studies 240: Public Speaking
• Media Studies 260: Athletes, Activism, and Media
• Media Studies 360: Public Memory, Race, and Place in Memphis
• Media Studies 370: Cities in Film
• Media Studies 460: Internship in Media Studies
• Philosophy 105: Black Mirror and Philosophy
• Russian 285: Putin’s Russia and Media
• Urban Studies 365: The Sounds of the City: Music and Urban Experiences
-- 16  out of 40 credits should be at the 300 or 400 level.
-- 8 out of 40 credits must be in courses that focus on media outside the US. (CHIN 207,
CHIN 216/URBN 265, CHIN 220/320, FREN 334, GRST 240/340, HIST 105 (Depending
on Topic), INTS 256, RUSS 285, RUSS 400, SPAN 414)
Printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/media-studies/requirements-
major-media-studies
Requirements for a Minor in Film and Media Studies
A total of twenty (20) credits as follows:
1. English 202: Introduction to Cinema
2. English 382: Film Theory
3. Three courses to be chosen from a list of offerings in various departments. One of
these requirements may be satisﬁed by a directed inquiry or an internship (on
approval of the Media Studies  Committee). Courses regularly offered include:
1. Art 102: Intro to Digital Art
2. Art 116: AnimationPrograms of Study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53
135 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 PM
3. Art 202: Intermediate Digital Art
4. Art 216: 3D Animation/Virtual Realities
5. Art 245: Guernica and Antiwar Art
6. Art 302: Advanced Digital Art
7. Chinese 216/Urban Studies 265: Asian Urbanization through Cinema
8. Chinese 220/320: Contemporary Chinese Cinema
9. English 190: Shakespeare on Screen
10. English 204: Introduction to Screenwriting
11. English 241: History and Criticism of American Cinema
12. English 242: World Film
13. English 245: Special Topics in Film
14. English 381: Advanced Topics in Film
15. French 334: French and Francophone Cinema
16. German 240/340: German Cinema
17. History 105: Black Cinema
18. History 105: British Empire through Film
19. History 105: History of Latin America through Film
20. History 105: Medieval at the Movies
21. International Studies 254: South Africa through Documentary Film
22. International Studies 256: Weapons of Mass Deception
23. Media Studies 120: Acting for New Media
24. Media Studies 202: Topics in Media Studies
25. Media Studies 240: Public SpeakingPrograms of Study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53
136 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 PM
26. Media Studies 245: Screenwriting
27. Media Studies 265: LGBTQ+ Culture in Media  
28. Philosophy 105: Black Mirror and Philosophy 
29. Politics and Law 208: Media and Politics
30. Politics and Law 308: Political Advertising
31. Russian 285: Putin's Russia and Media
32. Russian 400: Russian Film
33. Spanish 414: Cinema of Spain
34. Urban Studies 262: Music and Community in Memphis
35. Urban Studies 365: Urban Queer Cinema
36. Urban Studies 382: Music and Community in Memphis
Printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/media-studies/requirements-
minor-ﬁlm-and-media-studies
Modern Languages and Literatures
The Department of Modern Languages and Literatures regularly offers instruction in
Chinese, French, German, Russian, and Spanish. Details about the study of each of these
languages at Rhodes are found under the subject heading for that speciﬁc language. In
addition to literature and culture courses in the modern languages, the department also
offers some courses in literature and culture in English translation. Classes in Portuguese,
Italian, Japanese, and Arabic are available through consortial agreement with the
University of Memphis.
The F10 Degree Requirement. The degree requirement in languages may be met by the
successful completion of any appropriate four-credit course numbered 201 or higher or by
demonstrating proﬁciency through placement into a language course at a level above 201
and approval by the appropriate language faculty. Students who take 201 (or higher) or
the equivalent at another institution can earn transfer credit, but must still demonstrate
proﬁciency (see above) in the speciﬁc language before the degree requirement is
satisﬁed. This pertains to languages that are taught at Rhodes. Multilingual students may
petition to fulﬁll the requirement with a language not taught at Rhodes via alternativePrograms of Study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53
137 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 PM
testing. Students must submit their petition for alternative fulﬁllment of the F10 before the
end of their second year.
All students who plan to fulﬁll Rhodes’ foreign language degree requirement in a language
they have previously studied for two years or more in high school must take a placement
test in that language. For French, German, Russian, and Spanish, scores on that test will
be used to place students in the course most appropriate for them at Rhodes. Students
with fewer than two years in a language may enter that language at the 101 level. A
student may not take a course numbered 101 in any language for academic credit if two or
more years of that language were completed in high school. Any student who scores at
the 202 level or higher on the placement test will need to consult with the department to
see if he or she fulﬁlls Rhodes’ foreign language requirement. Students wishing to fulﬁll
the F10 requirement in a language not previously studied should sign up for a course
numbered 101 in that language.
In the modern languages, placement tests typically cover reading comprehension and
grammar. Literature or culture courses taken in translation do not satisfy the foreign
language degree requirement.
Printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/modern-languages-and-
literatures
Chinese
The mission of the current Chinese Studies Program is to educate students in Chinese
language, literature, culture, history, politics and religion, and to provide students with
academic knowledge and experiences to understand China as both an ancient civilization
and an emerging global power.   In this spirit, Chinese Studies majors will also learn to
appreciate their own positions vis-à-vis the challenges inherent in China's rise to global
prominence, confronting difﬁcult questions of nationalism and ethnocentrism.   As an
interdisciplinary program, Chinese Studies draws on faculty expertise from various
departments and prepares students for post-graduate studies, China related employment
opportunities and future engagement of China.
Printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/modern-languages-and-
literatures/chinese
Requirements for a Major in Chinese Studies
A total of 36 credits as follows:Programs of Study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53
138 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 PM
1. Chinese 301 (Advanced Chinese I) and 302 (Advanced Chinese II).
    China Maymester may be substituted for one of the above.
2. One of the following:
    Chinese 306: Introduction to East Asian Cultures
    Chinese 314: Introduction to Chinese Culture
3. Two of the following:
Chinese 305: Modern Chinese Literature in Translation
Chinese 307: Orientalism and Global China on Screen
Chinese 315: Gender in Chinese Literature
Chinese 316: Asian Urbanization/Cinema
Chinese 318: Taste, Culture and Power: Asia and Global Foodways
Chinese 320: Contemporary Chinese Cinema
(Chinese 305-320 can be taken in conjunction with one credit of 311.)
Chinese 409: Special Topics
4. Three of the following:
(The three courses must be taken from more than one discipline)
History 282: Traditional China
History 283: Modern China
History 481: Cold War in East Asia
Religious Studies 258 Topics: History of Religions (Buddhism)
INTS 261: Government and Politics of ChinaPrograms of Study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53
139 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 PM
INTS 262: China’s Foreign Policy
INTS 263: Comparative Political Economy of East Asia
INTS 264: China-Taiwan-US Relations
5. Chinese 485: Senior Seminar
Printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/modern-languages-and-
literatures/chinese/requirements-major-chinese-studies
Requirements for a Minor in Chinese Studies
A total of twenty (20) credits in Chinese language (above the level of intermediate Chinese
202), literature and culture. The credits are spread across the following courses:
1. Chinese 301 and 302: Advanced Chinese*
2. Two of the Chinese Literature and Culture courses:
Chinese 205: Modern Chinese Literature in Translation
Chinese 206: Introduction to East Asian Cultures
Chinese 207: Orientalism and Global China on Screen
Chinese 210: Chinese Literary Heritage
Chinese 214: Introduction to Chinese Culture
Chinese 215: Gender in Chinese Literature
Chinese 216: Asian Urbanization through Cinema
Chinese 218: Taste, Culture and Power: Asia and Global Foodways
Chinese 220: Contemporary Chinese Cinema
Chinese 409: Special TopicsPrograms of Study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53
140 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 PM
3. One of the following courses:
History 282: Traditional China
History 283: Modern China
Religious Studies 258 Topics: History of Religions (Buddhism)
International Studies 261: Government and Politics of China
International Studies 262: China’s Foreign Policy
International Studies 263: Comparative Political Economy of East Asia
International Studies 264: China-Taiwan-US Relations
*Students may substitute 409 for 301 or 302.
Printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/modern-languages-and-
literatures/chinese/requirements-minor-chinese-studies
French and Francophone Studies
Printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/modern-languages-and-
literatures/french-and-francophone-studies
Honors in French and Francophone Studies
A minimum of 40 hours above 201 in French; a research paper on a speciﬁc cultural or
literary topic; demonstrated proﬁciency in spoken and written French. A study abroad
experience in a French-speaking country is recommended but not required. Approval by
the Department of Modern Languages and Literatures is required.
Printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/modern-languages-and-
literatures/french-and-francophone-studies/honors-french-and
Requirements for a Major in French and Francophone
StudiesPrograms of Study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53
141 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 PM
A total of forty (40) credits as follows:
1. French 201 and 202*.
2. French 301, 486.
3. French 320, 321 or 322.
4. French 323, 324 or 335.
5. Sixteen (16) additional credits in French (4 four-credit courses) four of which must be
at the 300-400 level, depending on initial language placement.
Students who choose to take appropriate 300-400 level courses offered by the French
section in English may count up to two such courses toward the major, as long as they
have a French language component.
Majors are strongly encouraged to spend a semester or a year in a French or
Francophone university. Departmentally pre-approved courses taken there will normally be
accepted as courses in the major.
*French 201 may count towards the major. Students whose placement is above the 201
level are neither required nor allowed to take courses numbering below their placement
level for credit towards the major. Students placing above 201 are still required to take a
total of 40 credits for the major.
Printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/modern-languages-and-
literatures/french-and-francophone-studies/requirements-major
Requirements for a Minor in French and Francophone
Studies
A total of twenty (20) credits as follows:
1. French 201 and 202*.
2. French 301.
3. French 320, 321, 322, 323, 324, or 335.
4. Additional elective four-credit courses at the 300-400 level.
Minors are strongly encouraged to study in a French or Francophone university. Courses
taken abroad should be pre-approved by the section head to count towards the minor.Programs of Study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53
142 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 PM
Students who choose to take appropriate 300-400 level courses offered by the French
section in English may count only one such course toward the minor, as long as the
course has a French component.
*French 201 may count towards the minor. Students whose placement is above the 201
level are neither required nor allowed to take courses numbering below their placement
level for credit toward the minor. Students placing above 201 are still required to take 20
credits for the minor.
Printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/modern-languages-and-
literatures/french-and-francophone-studies/requirements-minor
German Studies
Printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/modern-languages-and-
literatures/german-studies
Honors in German
A minimum of 40 credits above German 201; a research paper on a speciﬁc literary,
linguistic, or cultural topic; demonstrated proﬁciency in spoken and written German.
Printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/modern-languages-and-
literatures/german-studies/honors-german
Requirements for a Major in German Studies
Requirements for a Major in German Studies
A total of nine courses (36 credits) as follows:
1. The German Studies major begins from the point of student’s German language
course placement. No course below a student’s language course placement can be
counted towards the German Studies major.
2. Student must complete German 301, 302, and 486 (Capstone Project).
3. German 301 or 302 must be taken before any other 300-level course is attempted
but may be taken concurrently with other 300-level courses.
4. Students must complete German 320 or 321.Programs of Study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53
143 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 PM
5. German 305 taken abroad may be substituted for either 301 or 302, but not both.
6. Concentrations (choose one):
A: German Language, Literature, and Culture
Students may include one German Studies course taught in English or any relevant
course with approval of major advisor.
B: Interdisciplinary German
Students may include two German Studies courses taught in English or any relevant
course with approval of major advisor.
The focus of the “German Language, Literature, and Culture” concentration is the
development of advanced language and cultural proﬁciency and an in-depth critical
understanding of the German-speaking world. The focus of the “Interdisciplinary German”
concentration is for students to develop upper-intermediate German language proﬁciency
and a critical understanding of the German-speaking world from interdisciplinary
perspectives.
Majors are strongly encouraged to participate in the exchange program with the University
of Tübingen, the University of Landau, or with a departmentally approved ISEP program
during their junior years; equivalent courses from there will be accepted as substitutes.
Printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/modern-languages-and-
literatures/german-studies/requirements-major-german-studies
Requirements for a Minor in German Studies
A total of six courses (24 credits) as follows:
1. The German Studies minor begins from the point of student’s German language
course placement. No course below a student’s language course placement can be
counted towards the German Studies minor.
2. Student must complete German 301 and 302.
3. Students initially placing into 102 or higher must complete German 320 or 321.
4. German 301 or 302 must be taken before any other 300-level course is attempted
but may be taken concurrently with other 300-level courses.Programs of Study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53
144 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 PM
5. German 305 taken abroad may be substituted for either 301 or 302, but not both.
6. Students may include one German Studies course taught in English or any relevant
course with approval of minor advisor.
Minors are strongly encouraged to participate in an approved summer German immersion
or study abroad program. See minor adviser for details.
Printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/modern-languages-and-
literatures/german-studies/requirements-minor-german-studies
Modern Languages and Literatures: Faculty and Staff
Associate Professors
Kathleen Anne Doyle.  1999. B.A., Saint Xavier College, Chicago; M.A. and Ph.D.,
University of Chicago (Spanish language, Modernism in Spain, Contemporary Peninsular
Spanish literature, Gender and Sexuality Studies)
Han Li.  2008. Chair. B.A. Nanjing University; Ph.D. University of California, Irvine
(Literature and culture of Late Imperial China.)
Eric Henager.  1995. B.A., Rhodes College; M.A. and Ph.D., University of Illinois (Spanish
language, Contemporary Latin American literatures and cultures, popular culture and
literature, Latin American Studies)
Alexandra Kostina. 1996. M.A. Novgorod State University; Ph.D. Gornyi
University/Russian State Pedagogical University (Russian language, linguistics, and
culture)
Laura Loth.  2009. B.A. College of William and Mary; M.A. and Ph.D., University of
Minnesota (French and Francophone literature and ﬁlm, Environmental Studies, Film
Studies)
Clara Pascual-Argente.  2011. B.A. and M.A. Universidad de Salamanca; Ph.D.
Georgetown University (Medieval and early modern Spanish literature, Film Studies)
Elizabeth Marcela Pettinaroli. 2007. B.A. Franklin and Marshall College; M.A. and Ph.D.,
University of Virginia (Latin American literature, Ecocritical Studies, Urban and
Environmental Studies, Bibliodiversity, Spanish language in socio-cultural contexts)Programs of Study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53
145 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 PM
Alberto del Pozo Martínez.  2008. Licenciado en Filología, Universidad de Zaragoza.
M.A. and Ph.D. Vanderbilt University (Modern Spanish American literature and Literary
Theory.)
Assistant Professors
Stacey E. Battis . 2022. B.A. Smith College; M.A. and Ph.D. University of California,
Berkeley (Early modern French literature, French and Francophone Studies, Gender and
Sexuality Studies)
Rachel Noël Bauer.  2008. B.A. Duquesne University; M.A. Purdue University; Ph.D.
Vanderbilt University (Early Modern Spanish literature, Golden Age narrative, Don Quixote
de la Mancha.)
Juanita Bernal Benavides. 2022. B.A. and M.A. Universidad de los Andes; Ph.D.
University of Michigan 
Kathryn Holihan . 2021. B.A. Oberlin College;   Ph.D, University of Michigan (Late-19th
through 20th-century German Studies, Science Studies, Museum Studies)
Bruce M. Jackson, Jr . 2021. B.A. and M.A. Middle Tennessee State University; Ph.D.
University of Tennessee, Knoxville (Mid-19th to Mid-20th century Spanish Peninsular
literature and culture, minority cultures in contemporary Spain)
Abou-Bakar Mamah.  2018. B.A. and M.A. University of Lomé, Togo; Ph.D. University of
Minnesota (French critical theory, Structuralism, French and Francophone Studies.)
Ricardo Martins. 2023. B.A. Universidade Federal de Minas Gerais; M.A. and Ph.D.
Indiana University (Mid-20th century - contemporary Transnational and Latin American
literature and cinema, Brazilian Favelas, Videogames, Media Studies)
Nina Morais.  2023. B.A. Federal University of Minas Gerais; M.A. Indiana University.
(Transcultural, Transnational and Migration Studies; Germany-Africa and Germany-South
America Relations; Contemporary German Theater and Film)
Catherine Sundt.  2012. B.A. Grand Valley State University; M.A. and Ph.D. The Ohio
State University (Modern Spanish literature and Urban literature.)
Yinyin Xue.  2020. B.A. Sichuan International Studies University; M.A. Peking University;
M.A. and Ph.D. University of Wisconsin-Madison  (Twentieth-century  Chinese literature
and culture)Programs of Study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53
146 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 PM
Instructors
Sarah Finley. 2020. B.A. and M.Ed. Vanderbilt University (French language and
Francophone cultures). 
Hernán Garrido. 2016. B.A. Andrews University; M.A. University of Mississippi (Spanish
language and Hispanic cultures).  
Yang Qi . 2019. B.A. Zhejiang University; M.Ed. University at Buffalo-SUNY (Teaching
English to Speakers of Other Languages); PhD. University of Florida (Curriculum and
Instruction).
Staff
Christy Waldkirch.  2005. Departmental Assistant.
Printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/modern-languages-and-
literatures/modern-languages-and-literatures-faculty-and-staff
Modern Languages and Literatures: General Courses
Modern Languages 150. Selected Foreign Languages.
Credits: Variable.
Certain foreign languages not listed above as regular course offerings are taught on
occasion. Information concerning languages not regularly taught may be obtained from
the Registrar or the department chair.
Modern Languages 240. Language Acquisition and Pedagogy.
Spring. Credits: 4
This course is a survey of a range of issues related to language acquisition and teaching.
Among the areas covered are instructional methodologies and approaches, second
language acquisition theories, language skill development, language teaching and
learning technology, communicative and cultural competency, and assessment.
Rhodes offers a secondary licensure program within the Teaching and Learning track of
the Educational Studies major. This program prepares students to teach middle and/orPrograms of Study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53
147 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 PM
high school in one of eleven endorsement areas, including the following languages:
Chinese, English, French, German, Latin, Russian, and Spanish. The course of study for
secondary licensure students is designed with guidance from faculty members in the
discipline in which the student is being certiﬁed as well as members of the Educational
Studies Program. All secondary licensure candidates are required to double major in
Educational Studies and their endorsement discipline.
Modern Languages 260. International Science Fiction and Utopia:
Shaping of Ideological Landscapes
Summer. Credits: 4
Degree requirements: F4 and F9
We are living through a time of great socio-political transformations, and history shows us
that many cultural products labeled “science ﬁction” have become perfect metaphors of
our fears and hopes (eg: Brave New World and 1984). Up to a point, science ﬁction allows
us to objectively see the aspirations and taboos of our intellectual and ideological
landscape. But what is then the relation between science ﬁction and utopia? In this
course, we will widely question the limits of these two concepts by bringing together
novels and ﬁlms belonging to different cultural traditions. We will go far beyond the limits
of Anglo-Saxon cultural production (More, Huxley, Orwell, or Kubrick, among others) and
engage a body of international cultural texts and ﬁlms (Zamyatin, Borges, Lem, Godard)
which could help us understand the limits and points of contact of each tradition/culture;
that is to say, the narrative nature of our "worlds."
Modern Languages 280. Introduction to General Linguistics.
Spring. Credits: 4
Degree Requirements: F9
The Introduction to General Linguistics course presents language as a speciﬁc object of
knowledge, thought, science, and philosophy. Students will be introduced to the major
linguistic theories and examine language as a system and structure at its various levels,
as well as a tool to guide, plan, and monitor human activity. Offered in alternate years.
Modern Languages 460. Internship.
Fall, Spring. Credits: 1-4
Degree Requirements: F11
Internships in the departmental languages are occasionally available for language majorsPrograms of Study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53
148 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 PM
and permit a qualiﬁed student to receive academic credit for an internship experience on
or off campus, for example by working with a business, a non-proﬁt organization, or within
the department itself. The internship, which requires of the student an advanced
competence in a foreign language, must entail a signiﬁcant encounter with a foreign
language. Working with a faculty mentor, students must submit a project proposal for the
internship prior to the beginning of the internship itself. The completed project will be
graded by the faculty mentor. Intradepartmental internships will be reserved for students
planning to continue their studies in a foreign language and culture beyond the
undergraduate level. Such internal internships will involve working with a faculty mentor on
projects of a diverse nature that seek to enhance the program offerings of the language
section. Placements must be approved by the faculty mentor who teaches the language in
question and the chair of the department. Internship credit will not be awarded
retroactively and does not count toward the total number of credits required for the major
or minor.
Pass/Fail only.
Printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/modern-languages-and-
literatures/modern-languages-and-literatures-general-courses
Russian
Printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/modern-languages-and-
literatures/russian
Programs Abroad
Students can spend a summer, semester, or academic year in Russia through such
nationally-recognized programs as the Council for International and Educational Exchange
(CIEE), the American Council on the Teaching of Russian (ACTR),School of Russian and
Asian Studies (SRAS), and American Institue for Foreign Study (AIFS). Summer
Internships in Russia are available through Crossroads Eurasia.
Printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/modern-languages-and-
literatures/russian/programs-abroad
Requirements for a Major in Russian Studies
A total of thirty-six (36)  credits above Russian 201 as follows:Programs of Study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53
149 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 PM
1. Russian 202. Intermediate Russian
2. Russian 205: The Russian Religious Mind; and either Russian 212: Prophets,
Princesses, and Revolutionaries or Russian 300: Dostoevsky
3. Two courses from Russian 301, 302, 309 (All advanced Russian)
4. Russian 410: Analytical Reading, Russian 486: Senior seminar
5. Russian 285: Putin’s Russia and the Media and ML280: Introduction into General
Linguistics
Majors are encouraged to spend at least one semester studying in Russia.
Printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/modern-languages-and-
literatures/russian/requirements-major-russian-studies
Requirements for a Minor in Russian Studies
A total of twenty (20)  credits as follows:
1.  Russian 202 (Intermediate Russian), 301 (Advanced Russian), 302 (Advanced
Russian)
2. Two of the following: Russian 205: Russian Religious Mind, 212: Prophets,
Princesses, and Revolutionaries, 285: Putin’s Russian and the Media, 300:
Dostoevsky, 410: Analytical Reading
Substitutions are possible (say, you took a relevant course in IS or History, they can be
applied toward your major or minor), which may make it easier to major or minor in
Russian Studies.
Printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/modern-languages-and-
literatures/russian/requirements-minor-russian-studies
Russian: Offerings
101-102. Elementary Russian.
Fall, Spring. Credits: 4-4.Programs of Study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53
150 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 PM
Elementary grammar, reading, and conversation, supplemented by materials on Russian
culture.
201-202. Intermediate Russian.
Fall, Spring. Credits: 4-4.
Degree Requirement: F10 for 201.
Intermediate grammar and continued training in conversation and composition,
supplemented by materials on contemporary developments in Russian society. Reading of
Russian texts of graded difﬁculty, intermediate writing.
Prerequisites : Russian 101-102 or equivalent.
205. The Russian Religious Mind.
Fall. Credits: 4.
Degree Requirements: F1, F4
The course examines the distinct world-consciousness of Russian religious tradition and
thought, with emphasis on the themes of God, good and evil, love, the search for divine
justice on Earth, the material world as sanctiﬁed, and the moral content of spiritualized
beauty. Reading materials are on wisdom of Orthodox monastics, form Russian religious
philosophers, as well as contemporary writers.
209. Russian in Russia.
Summer. Credits: 4.
Degree Requirements: F10 for 209, F11.
A 3-4 week guided encounter with the language and culture aimed at solidifying
vocabulary and grammar previously acquired. A signiﬁcant cultural component is part of
the course. Takes place in May-June.
212. Prophets, Princesses, and Revolutionaries: 19th-century Russian
Voices.
Fall or Spring. Credits: 4.
Degree Requirements: F2i, F4. Elective for GSS minor.
Reading of representative works by major Russian writers of the nineteenth centuryPrograms of Study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53
151 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 PM
(including Pushkin, Pavlova, Gogol, Goncharov, Soboleva, Turgenev, Tolstoy, and
Dostoevsky). The literary works include Eugene Onegin, supernatural tales by Gogol,
short stories by women writers, and novels by Turgenev and Dostoevsky. These works will
be studied for their individual merit, what they illuminate about nineteenth-century Russian
society, and their contribution to the rise of the Russian novel. All works are read in
translation.
215. Giants of Russia’s Silver Age: Soloviev, Blok, and Rachmaninoff.
Spring. Credits: 4.
Degree Requirements: F5, F9.
Study of the aesthetic, thematic, and personal connections among three of Russia’s
towering ﬁgures: Vladimir Soloviev, Alexander Blok, and Sergei Rachmaninoff. The course
will examine in depth the creative works of the philosopher-poet Soloviev, the poet-
dramatist Blok, and the composer-pianist Rachmaninoff (for whom poetry was second only
to music). Master themes and global concepts linking the three creative artists include the
yearning for harmony; exploration of Russian Orthodox religiosity; elevation of the –eternal
feminineî of Sophia (the body of God); and connection between beauty and goodness.
Representative philosophical, poetic, and musical works, respectively, of the three artists
will be examined. Offered in alternate years.  
Prerequisite : At least one course from the following departments or programs: Music,
Philosophy, Religious Studies, or Russian Studies.
255. Catherine the Great and the Enlightenment: The Italian-Russian
Connection.
Fall or Spring. Credits: 4.
Degree Requirements: F5, F9.
In this course students investigate the Italian-Russian connections in three major areas of
cultural production during the reign of Catherine the Great: music, literature, and
architecture. Creative thinkers whose works will be studied include Bortnyansky, Paisiello,
Casanova, Beccaria, Rastrelli, and Quarenghi. Students will learn features of the
European and Russian Enlightenments, study the intricacies of Russian court culture, and
explore the institution of patronage. The course aims to develop an understanding of
cross-cultural fertilization and some major differences between Mediterranean and Slavic
cultures. It is complemented by an optional, though highly recommended, three-week
study trip to Italy and Russia (See Russian 256). Offered in alternate years.  
256. Catherine the Great and the Italian-Russian Connection.Programs of Study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53
152 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 PM
Summer. Credits: 0-1.
Degree Requirements: F11.
This Maymester program examines the musical, literary, and architectural connections
between Italy and Russia during the reign of Catherine the Great. It takes participants to
three cities: Rome, Milan, and St. Petersburg. In Rome students will attend lectures at
LUMSA (university adjacent to the Vatican), attend a musical performance at the Teatro
dell’Opera, visit places associated with Giacomo Casanova, and investigate architectural
monuments by Italian architects whom Catherine attracted to Russia. In Milan participants
will attend an opera at the Teatro all Scala and visit sites associated with Cesare Beccaria.
In St. Petersburg students will attend performances in the Great Hall of the St. Petersburg
Philharmonic and the Mariinsky Theatre, and will study major architectural ensembles.
Takes place in May and June.
285. Putin's Russia and the Media
Spring. Credits: 4.
Degree Requirements: F9. Elective for Media Studies major/minor.
This course explores a wide array of important media, print, and ﬁlmic sources that are
underrepresented in Western narratives about contemporary Russia. Students utilize the
study of these materials in order to better understand Russia today, and especially to gain
awareness of how the media can shape public opinion. While calling attention to media
bias, the course serves as an entry to contemporary Russian society, providing observers
of Russia with a fuller understanding of her geopolitical perspectives and vision for the
twenty ﬁrst century. (Cross-listed with I.S. 285).
300. Dostoevsky.
Fall or Spring. Credits: 4.
Degree Requirements: F4, F9.
This course explores selected works by Dostoevsky in the context of the rise of the
Russian novel. The course will examine in depth several short works by the writer, as well
as the novels The Idiot and The Brothers Karamazov. Concentration is on the major
literary, philosophical, and religious issues Dostoevsky raises in his prose, as well as how
these issues better enable us to understand the Russian mind. All works are read in
translation.
301-302. Advanced Russian.Programs of Study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53
153 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 PM
Fall, Spring. Credits: 4-4.
Advanced grammar, with greater emphasis on the reﬁnement of conversation and
composition skills. Discussion of topics related to contemporary life in Russia.
Prerequisites : Russian 201-202 or equivalent.
309. Russian in Russia.
Summer. Credits: 4.
Degree Requirements: F11.
A 3-4 week guided encounter with the language and culture aimed at solidifying
vocabulary and grammar previously acquired. A signiﬁcant cultural component is part of
the course. Takes place in May-June.
400. Russian Film: Film Theory.
Spring. Credits: 4.
Degree Requirements: F5.
Introduction to the ideological and aesthetic forces that have shaped the development of
Soviet/Russian ﬁlm, with particular attention to various ﬁlm theories. Films of major
directors, such as Eisenstein, Pudovkin, Tarkovsky, Kulidzhanov, and Sokurov will be
studied. All ﬁlms are subtitled; course is taught in English. Offered in alternate years.
410. Analytical Reading.
Fall. Credits: 4.
This course aims to teach students the strategies of understanding texts of high literary
quality by analyzing elements of given texts in their complexity. While focusing mainly on
psycho-poetic aspects of reading activity, the course also introduces formal approaches to
text analysis, such as identifying the stylistic devices and expressive means employed by
the authors.
486. Senior Seminar.
Spring. Credits: 4.
Students will be assigned individual research topics associated with the essential concept
of the Russian Idea, give weekly progress reports, which will involve analytical discussion,
and present their results orally and in writing at the end of the course. Special attention willPrograms of Study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53
154 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 PM
be given to assigned readings from the Russian press and from Russian literature.
495-496. Honors Tutorial.
Fall, Spring. Credits: 4-8, 4-8.
Printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/modern-languages-and-
literatures/russian/russian-offerings
Spanish
Printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/modern-languages-and-
literatures/spanish
Honors in Spanish
A minimum of 40 credits above Spanish 202, reading in a ﬁeld of specialization and
preparation of a paper in that ﬁeld; examinations covering Spanish literature, Spanish
American literature and civilization, Spanish grammar and Spanish civilization, and the
ﬁeld of specialization. Approval by the Department of Modern Languages and Literatures
is required.
Printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/modern-languages-and-
literatures/spanish/honors-spanish
Requirements for a Major in Spanish
A total of thirty-six (36) credits above Spanish 202. At least ﬁve courses must be
completed at or above the 310 level. Required courses are the following:
1. Spanish 301 or 302. (the other may be taken as an elective)
2. Spanish 303, 306, and 486.
3. Five elective courses, at least four of which must be numbered 310 or above.
Printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/modern-languages-and-
literatures/spanish/requirements-major-spanish
Requirements for a Minor in SpanishPrograms of Study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53
155 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 PM
A total of twenty (20) credits above Spanish 202. At least one course must be completed
at or above the 310 level. Required courses are the following:
1. Spanish 301 or 302. (the other may be taken as an elective)
2. Spanish 303 or 306. (the other may be taken as an elective)
3. Three elective courses, at least one of which must be numbered 310 or above.
Printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/modern-languages-and-
literatures/spanish/requirements-minor-spanish
The Language Learning and Resource Center
The Language Learning and Resource Center is a dynamic resource space for all
language students and faculty. The Center offers a variety of technology, digital media,
and non-digital resources, as well as free language tutoring. It offers professional
development opportunities and curricular support for Rhodes language faculty and
functions as space for student-centered language and culture club events, departmental
events, and academic symposia. The Language Learning and Resource Center is
supervised by the Language Center director and a student RSA and has numerous
employment opportunities for interested language students.
Printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/modern-languages-and-
literatures/language-learning-and-resource-center
Music
Music  
Music provides opportunities for all students to be involved with musical performances on
campus.  The mission of Music at Rhodes College is to serve as a catalyst for life-long
learning and appreciation for music. Our mission is to generate a comprehensive, diverse,
ﬂexible program of excellence in music, appealing to students of all walks of life at the
college. Our intention is to help students develop aural, analytical and aesthetic
intelligences and abilities, and prepare them for professional careers and/or graduate work
in music, as desired. Our purpose is to create true appreciators of music as an art form
and discipline, and to facilitate the human and spiritual growth of all who connect and
engage with the department, whether by participating or observing. Rhodes College  is an
accredited institutional member of the National Association of Schools of Music [NASM] .
Becoming a Music MajorPrograms of Study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53
156 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 PM
Music majors are required to undergo a sophomore-year review in February.   This review
helps assess academic and artistic progress and helps focus direction for the remainder of
their undergraduate studies in music. Students must complete a Declaration of Major form
which includes: an outline of their proposed course of study, an essay which details why
they wish to major in music, and consultation with their academic advisor. The review
includes assessment of all previous juries, review of the student's Declaration of Major
form,  and an interview with full-time music faculty.  
Performance Opportunities 
All students are invited to enroll in performance ensembles. See course offerings: MUSC
181 through 199.
All students are invited to enroll in private (applied) lessons in voice/instrument. See
course offerings: MUSC 160 through 180.
Applied Lesson Fee
Applied Music Fee. Students enrolled in applied music will be charged an additional fee of
$490.00 per credit for private lessons. After the ﬁrst applied music lesson, this applied
lesson fee is nonrefundable.
Once declared, Music majors will have the Applied Music fees waived for up to eight (8)
credits of their principal applied instrument. Music majors taking more than eight (8)
credits of Applied Music and lessons taken prior to declaration of the major will be charged
the applied fee for those credits.
Once declared, Music minors will have the Applied Music fees waived for up to four (4)
credits of Applied Music and lessons taken prior to declaration of the minor will be charged
the applied fee for those credits.
*All students enrolled in 20 or more credits in a semester are assessed the extra fee for
each credit beginning with the 20th credit. When one of those credits is an applied music
course which carries its own fee, the following happens:
Students who are neither music majors nor music minors are assessed the applied music
fee, but have the extra hour fee removed from their account.
Students who are either music majors or music minors have the applied music fee
removed from their account, but are assessed the extra credit fee at a rate that is equal to
the current applied music fee.
Printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/musicPrograms of Study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53
157 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 PM
Music: Faculty and Staff
Professors
Carole Choate Blankenship.  1990. Chair.  B.A., Rhodes College; M.M., D.M.A.,
University of Memphis. (Voice, Senior Seminar, Opera Scenes.)    
Courtenay L. Harter.  2000. B.F.A., Carnegie Mellon University; M.M., Northwestern
University; Ph.D., University of Connecticut. (Music Theory, Music & Psychology,
Oboe/English Horn, Chamber Music.)    
William M. Skoog.  2009.  B.A., Gustavus Adolphus College; M.A., University of Denver;
D.A., University of Northern Colorado. (Director of Choral Activities, Conducting.)
Associate Professors
John B. Bass, III.  2010. B.M., University of Southern Mississippi; M.M., Ph.D., University
of Memphis. (Director of the Mike Curb Institute, African-American Studies, Jazz Studies,
Improvisation, Guitar.)    
Thomas E. Bryant.  1987. B.M., M.M., University of Georgia; D.M., Northwestern
University. (Piano, Collaborative Piano, Music Literature.)    
Vanessa L. Rogers.  2010. B.M.E., Illinois Wesleyan University; M.A., Ph.D., University of
Southern California. (Music History, Music Literature, Search.)
Assistant Professors
Jacob Sunshine.  2023. B.A.., Columbia University; M.A., Ph.D. A.B.D., Harvard
University. (Ethnomusicology, African/African-American Studies, Jazz Studies, Guitar.) 
Adjunct Instructors
Mike Assad.  B.M., University of Kentucky; M.M., University of Memphis. (Percussion,
World Drum Ensemble.)    
Whitney Branan . B.A., Wagner College; SAG-AFTRA. (Dance, Choreogrophy.)  
Elizabeth Cawein.   B.A., Murray State University; M.A., Brunel University. (Music
Urbanism, Mike Curb Institute for Music.) 
Barrie Cooper. B.M., Ithaca College; M.M., Peabody Conservatory. Memphis Symphony
Orchestra. (Violin.)   
Jenny Davis.  B.M., Middle Tennessee State University; M.M., Boston University. D.M.A.
Candidate, University of South Carolina. (Flute, Flute Ensemble.)    
Rena Feller.  B.M., Oberlin College Conservatory of Music; M.M., The Juilliard School.
Memphis Symphony Orchestra. (Clarinet.)    
Tyler Fritts.  B.A., Berea College; M.M., University of Louisville; Ph.D, University of
Memphis. (Musicology, Southern Regional Studies.)    
Alaina Graiser . B.M., Univeristy of Texas; M.M., University of Toronto; D.M.A., CinicinnatiPrograms of Study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53
158 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 PM
College Conservatory of Music. (Harp.)   
Dennis Janzer.  B.S., Marquette University; M.S., Marquette University; B.A., M.M.,
University of Wisconsin-Milwaukee; D.M.A., University of Miami. (Organ.)    
Marcus King.  B.M.E., University of Memphis; M.M., University of Memphis. (Voice.)    
Ellen B. Koziel.  B.A., Radford University; M.M., University of Memphis; Ph.D.,  University
of Memphis. (Rhodes Camerata.)    
Will Lang.  B.A., Rhodes College; M.M., University of Memphis. (Jazz Ensemble.)   
Francisco Lara.  B.M., Northwestern University, M.M., Ph.D., Florida State University.
(Musicology, Ethnomusicology.)    
David T. Lay.  B.M., Lambuth University. (Guitar.)    
Michael McKenzie . B.M.E., University of Memphis. (Trumpet.)    
Sean O'Hara. B.M., The Julliard School; M.M., Carnegie Mellon University. (Classical
Bass.)   
Žak Ozmo. B.M., Wilfrid Laurier University; M.M., D.M.A., University of Southern
California. (Music History, Music and Healing.)    
Brian Ray.  B.M., University of Tennessee at Martin; M.M., University of Memphis; D.M.A.,
University of Memphis. (Piano, Department Collaborative Pianist.)    
John Ross.  B.M., Northern Illinois University; M.M., Illinois State University. (Guitar,
Guitar Ensemble.)    
Alisha Rufty. B.M.E., Florida State University; M.M., D.M.A., Univeristy of Memphis.
(Cello.)   
Jane Gerard-Schranze.  B.M., Eastman School of Music; M.M., New England
Conservatory. (Viola, Violin, Chamber Music.)    
Sylvester Sample. B.S., University of Memphis; M.B.A., Illinois Institute of Technology.
(Jazz Bass.)    
Jonathan H. Schallert.  B.M.E., Harding University; M.M., Ph.D., University of Memphis.
(Orchestra, Conducting, Music Theory.)    
David L. Shotsberger.  B.M., M.M., Pennsylvania State University; D.M.A., University of
Memphis. (Music Technology, Composition, Jazz Band.)    
Debra H. Smith.  B.M., Mississippi College; M.M., University of Memphis. (Piano, Organ,
Music Literature and Theory.)    
Bradley Sowell.  B.M.E., Georgia College; M.M. University of South Dakota; D.M.A.
Candidate, University of Memphis. (Voice.)    
Gerald Stephens. B.F.A., University of Memphis. (Jazz Piano.)    
Kate Stimson.  B.A., Hollins College; M.M., University of Memphis. (Piano.)    
Mark Vail.  B.M., University of North Texas. Memphis Symphony Orchestra. (Trombone,
Low Brass.)    
Yukiko Whitehead.  B.M., University of Tennessee; M.M., D.M.A., University of Memphis;
Yamaha Music Foundation Suzuki Piano Teachers Certiﬁcate, Suzuki Association of
America. (Piano.)    
Carl R. Wolfe.  U.S. Navy Chief Musician (ret.); U.S. Armed Forces School of Music.
Memphis Jazz Orchestra. (Saxophone.)Programs of Study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53
159 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 PM
Staff
Erika Pope. 2016.  Musical Arts Coordinator. B.A., Henderson State University.
Printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/music/music-faculty-and-staff
Requirements for Music Industry Studies Certiﬁcates
Requirements for the Certiﬁcate in Content Production
Students must complete a total of 14 credits as follows:
1. MUSC/URBN 262: Music & Community in Memphis (2 credits)  
2. Twelve (12) credits from the following electives:     
MUSC 222: Music Tech I   
MUSC 322: Music Tech II   
MUSC 323: Audio Engineering: History, Theory, & Practice  
MUSC/URBN 382: Music & Community in Memphis II   
ART 102: Intro to Digital Art I  
ART 110: Film & Experimental Video Production  
ART 115: Creative Publishing: Zines, Comics, Manifestos, and Artist’s Books  
ART 202: Intermediate Digital Art  
MST 120: Acting for New Media  
MST 245: Screenwriting  
ENGL 206+207: Creative Publishing I & II  
Relevant Department or Program Topics Courses approved by Curb Institute Director
and Department/Program Chair  
3. Mike Curb Institute Fellowship (one semester minimum)
Requirements for the Certiﬁcate in Arts Entrepreneurship
Students must complete a total of 14 credits as follows:
1. MUSC/URBN 262: Music & Community in Memphis (2 credits)  
2. Twelve (12) credits from the following electives:     Programs of Study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53
160 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 PM
MUSC 250: Music Urbansim  
MUSC/URBN: Survey of Music Industry Studies  
MUSC/URBN 382: Music & Community in Memphis II   
MUSC 140: Music & Healing  
BUS 125: Intro to Entreprenuership  
MST 265: LGBTQ++ Culture in Media  
PLAW 208: Media & Politics  
PLAW: Urban Politics and Policy  
URBN 340: Non-Proﬁts in the City  
Relevant Department or Program Topics Courses approved by Curb Institute Director
and Department/Program Chair  
3. Mike Curb Institute Fellowship (one semester minimum)
Printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/music/requirements-music-
industry-studies-certiﬁcates
Requirements for a Minor in Dance
A total of twenty-two (22) credits as follows:
1. Dance Performance (14 credits)    
MUSC 150 (Dance for Musical Theatre) [F5]    
MUSC 155 (Topics in Dance) [F5 pending]    
MUSC 251 (Adv Jazz/Contemporary Dance) [F5]    
MUSC 255 (Advanced Topics in Dance) 
2. Musical Structure (4 credits, dependent on placement):    
MUSC 103 (Elements of Music) [F5] or    
MUSC 204 (Understanding Musicianship) [F5] or    
one from MUSC 306-313 [F6 & F2i available] 
3. Dance in Culture (4 credits/1 course):    
MUSC 265 (History of Musical Theatre) [F3 & F5]    
MUSC 231/HIST 226 (Musical Paris 1870-1940) [F3 & F5]   
ANSO 333 (Sociology and Hip Hop) [F9]    
Other courses/topics as approved by department.  Programs of Study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53
161 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 PM
Printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/music/requirements-minor-dance
Requirements for a Major in Music
A total of ﬁfty-two (52) credits as follows:
1. Music Theory Courses (12 credits)
      a.  MUSC 204: Understanding Musicianship [F5]*
      b.  Two 300-level music theory courses (306-313)
      *If placement test determines this course is redundant,
        choose three (3) 300-level music  theory courses.
2. Music History & Literature Courses (12 credits)
      a.  MUSC 227: Western Art Music I [F3]
      b.  MUSC 228: Western Art Music II [F3]
      c.  One F9  elective: MUSC 116, 117, 118, 119, 130, or select 105 sections
  
3. Performance Courses (12 credits)
      a. 6 semesters of applied music lessons (MUSC 160-180 = 1 credit each)
      b. 6 semesters of large ensembles (MUSC 181-184, 190-194  = 1 credit each)
4. Senior Experience (8 credits)
      a. MUSC 485-486: Senior Seminar & Presentation (4 credits)**
      b. MUSC 414: Conducting I (2 credits)
      c. MUSC 415: Conducting II or 300-level Composition (2 credits)
      **Co-requisite of applied music lessons (if choosing a performance project) OR
          Co-requisite of applied composition lessons (if choosing a composition project).
5. Music Electives (8 credits)
MUSC 101 does not fulﬁll this requirement.
Once declared, Music majors will have the Applied Music fees waived for up to eight (8)
credits of their principal applied instrument. Music majors taking more than eight (8)
credits of Applied Music and lessons taken prior to declaration of the major will be charged
the applied fee for those credits.
NOTE:  Fine Arts Scholarship waivers for Applied Music fees are outlined in the award
letter which supersedes music major and minor fee waivers outlined here.Programs of Study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53
162 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 PM
Printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/music/requirements-major-music
Requirements for a Minor in Music
A total of twenty-four (24) credits as follows:
1. One Music Theory Course (4 credits)
   a. MUSC 204: Understanding Musicianship OR 
       One (1) 300-level music theory course (306-313), depending on placement.
2. One Music History & Literature Course  (4 credits)
   a. MUSC 227: Western Art Music I [F3]
   b. MUSC 228: Western Art Music II [F3]
3. Performance Courses (8 credits)
   a. 4 semesters of applied lessons (MUSC 160-180 = 1 credit each)
   b. 4 semesters of large ensembles (MUSC 181-184, 190-194 = 1 credit each)
4. Two 4-credit Music Electives (8 credits)
   a. Courses from MUSC 160-199 do not fulﬁll this requirement.
Once declared, Music minors will have the Applied Music fees waived for up to four (4)
credits of their principal applied instrument. Music minors taking more than four (4) credits
of Applied Music and lessons taken prior to declaration of the minor will be charged the
applied fee for those credits.
NOTE:  Fine Arts Scholarship waivers for Applied Music fees are outlined in the award
letter which supersedes music major and minor fee waivers outlined here.
Printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/music/requirements-minor-music
Music Theory Placement
A music theory placement test is given by the department to determine a student’s skill
level. Any student demonstrating the appropriate degree of proﬁciency may place into
either Music 204 or a 300-level music theory elective. Students may, alternatively, fulﬁll
this prerequisite by taking Music 103 before beginning the theory sequence. Contact Dr.Programs of Study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53
163 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 PM
Courtenay Harter for more information. harterc@rhodes.edu
Printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/music/music-theory-placement
Honors in Music
All Honors in Music candidates must meet the College's eligibility criteria established for
the Honors Program. Only students with a minimum overall GPA of 3.5 and a GPA within
the major of 3.5 by the end of the fall semester of their junior year will be eligible to pursue
honors. In addition to fulﬁlling the requirements for the major, students seeking honors will
be expected to complete the following additional work:
1. The one-credit Honors Tutorial, Music 399, in spring of the junior year: in consultation
with an appropriate member of the Music faculty, the Honors candidate must write a
proposal for Honors work, positing a substantial Honors thesis or creative project that
demonstrates an exceptional understanding of the area(s) studied, to be implemented in
the senior year. The department must approve the proposal.
2. The Senior Honors Tutorials, Music 495-496, in fall and spring of the senior year. An
overall grade of A- on the thesis or project itself is required for Honors credit.
Printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/music-and-theatre/honors-music
Neuroscience
The Interdisciplinary Major in Neuroscience at Rhodes bridges the ﬁelds of Biology,
Psychology, Chemistry and Philosophy. The major provides students with an
understanding of the methodological challenges and conceptual issues that lie at the heart
of efforts to understand the function of the nervous system and its role in behavior.
Printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/neuroscience
Honors in Neuroscience
In addition to maintaining a cumulative and major GPA of at least 3.5, honors candidates
are required to enroll in Neuroscience 399 in the Spring of their junior year. By the start of
the senior year, the candidate must submit a proposal for an independent research project
for approval by the Program Committee. Up to 8 credits of Neuroscience 495-496 are
taken each semester of the senior year. In addition to submitting a written report, thePrograms of Study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53
164 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 PM
candidate is required to make an oral presentation at the conclusion of the research
project. The honors degree in Neuroscience is contingent upon committee acceptance of
the research manuscript.
Printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/neuroscience/honors-
neuroscience
Neuroscience: Program Committee
Professors
David Kabelik . 2009. H.B.Sc., University of Toronto; Ph.D., Arizona State University.
(Neuroscience, endocrinology, physiology, animal behavior.)
Associate Professors
Kelly A. Dougherty . 2014. B.S., West Chester University; Ph.D., Thomas Jefferson
University. (Neuroscience, biophysics, neurophysiology.)
Jason Haberman . 2014. B.A., University of Miami; M.A. and Ph.D., University of
California - Davis. (Neuroscience: visual psychophysics; object recognition, ensemble
perception.)
Rebecca Klatzkin . 2011. B.S., University of Richmond; Ph.D., University of North
Carolina, Chapel Hill. (Behavioral neuroscience: stress; eating behavior; binge eating
disorder.)
Larryn W. Peterson . 2011. B.A., Carroll College; Ph.D., University of Southern California.
(Organic Chemistry.) 
Assistant Professors
Carlos Lafourcade . 2023. Licenciate degree and Ph.D., University of Buenos Aires.
(Epilepsy, stress, cannabinoids.)
Jared Millson . 2021. B.A., Boston University; Ph.D., Emory University. (Philosophy of
cognitive sciences.)
Tanushree Pandit . 2019. B.S., M.S., RTM Nagpur University;  Ph.D., Umea University.
(Developmental neuroscience.)Programs of Study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53
165 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 PM
Laura Shannahan . 2022. B.S., University of Wisconsin at Madison; Ph.D., Northwestern
University. (Cognitive neuroscience, sleep, sensory systems.)
Printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/neuroscience/neuroscience-
program-committee
Requirements for a Major in Neuroscience Leading to
the B.S. Degree
A total of ﬁfty-four to ﬁfty-eight (54-58) credits as follows:
1. Seven (7) core requirements (28 credits total):
1. Chem 120&125L (Foundations of Chemistry & Lab)
2. Biol 130&131L (Biology I & Lab)
3. Biol 140&141L (Biology II & Lab)
4. Psyc 150 (Introduction to Psychological Science)
5. Psyc  211 or Math 211 (Statistical Methods in Psychology or Applied Statistics
for the Natural Sciences)
6. Neur 270 (Neuroscience)
7. Neur 485 or 486 (Senior Seminar)
2. Two (2) depth requirements (10 credits total):
1. Biol 375&375L or Biol 376&376L or Biol 377&377L (Neuroendocrinology & Lab
or Molecular and Cellular Neuroscience & Lab or Developmental Neuroscience
& Lab)
2. Neur/Psyc 344&344L or Neur/Psyc 345&345L (Neuroscience of Sleep & Lab or
Cognitive Neuroscience & Lab)
3. Neur 300 (Topics in Neuroscience with Lab)
3. Two (2) breadth courses from the following (8-10 credits total):
1. Chem 411&411L (Medicinal/Computational Chemistry & Lab - independent
project must be Neuroscience based to count toward major)Programs of Study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53
166 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 PM
2. Neur 299 Topics in Neuroscience 
3. Neur/Psyc 318 (Clinical Neuroscience)
4. Neur 451-452 (Research in Neuroscience; 4 credits required)
5. Phil 219 (Foundations of Artiﬁcial Intelligence)
6. Phil 312 (Philosophy of the Cognitive Sciences)
7. Psyc 216 (Perception)
8. Psyc 327 (Cognitive Processes)
9. A third depth course
4. Two (2) electives from the following list (8-10 credits total):
1. Biol 204&204L (Animal Development & Lab)
2. Biol 207&207L (Animal Behavior & Lab)
3. Biol 303 or 304&304L (Genetics or Genetics & Lab)
4. Biol 307 (Cell Biology)
5. Biol 325&325L (Molecular Biology & Lab)
6. Biol 340&340L (Animal Physiology & Lab)
7. Chem 315 (Biochemistry)
8. Chem 416 (Pharmacology)
9. Comp 141 or 142 (Computer Science I or II)
10. Scientiﬁc Research 451-452 (in a major outside of Neuroscience, as approved
by the Neuroscience committee; 4 credits required)
11. Psyc 218 (Psychology of Addiction)
12. Psyc 220 (Psychology of Health)
13. Psyc 224 (Psychological Disorders)
14. Psyc 231 (Psychology of Aging)Programs of Study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53
167 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 PM
15. Psyc 306 (Psycholinguistics)
16. Up to two additional depth or breadth courses
5. Courses recommended but not required:
1. Chem 211-212 & 212L (Organic Chemistry I and Organic Chemistry II & Lab)
2. Math 115 (Applied Calculus)
3. Math 212 (Applied Regression)
4. Math 330 (Biostatistics)
5. Phys 109-110 & Lab or 111-112 & Lab (Physics for the Life Sciences & Labs or
Physics for the Physical Sciences & Labs)
Printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/neuroscience/requirements-
major-neuroscience-leading-bs-degree
Philosophy
Courses in the Department of Philosophy explore life’s most interesting and fundamental
questions: What does it mean to be human? To be a person? Who am I and how should I
live? Does life have meaning? Does God exist? What does it mean to be free? What are
our duties to others? What principles should govern our social and political life? What is
the difference between belief and knowledge? Why are we prone to thinking and
reasoning poorly? Our courses explore questions like these through the study of ethics,
law, logical thinking, metaphysics, epistemology, political philosophy, and various
controversies associated with race, gender, religion, politics, economics, science,
technology and artiﬁcial intelligence. We seek truth by asking questions, answering the
questions, and questioning the answers, always with respect for the views and arguments
of others. Philosophy courses will sharpen a student’s analytical reading, thinking, and
writing, all of which are indispensable skills prized by graduate schools, law schools, and
employers.
Printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/philosophy
Philosophy: Faculty and Staff
PROFESSORS
Daniel Cullen.  1988. M.A. Dalhousie University.  Ph.D. Boston College: political and 
moral philosophy, philosophy of law, PPE (Philosophy, Politics and Economics),Programs of Study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53
168 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 PM
contemporary political theory 
Stephen Wirls . 1994. B.A. Kenyon College; Ph.D. Cornell University: modern political
thought, philosophy and religion, existentialism, PPE (Philosophy, Politics and Economics)
ASSOCIATE PROFESSORS
Erin Dolgoy . 2013. H.B.A. University of Toronto; M.A. University of Alberta; M.A. and
Ph.D. Michigan State University. (history of political thought, science and technology
policy, United States politics) 
Rebecca Tuvel . Chair. 2014. B.A. McGill University. Ph.D. Vanderbilt
University.  (philosophy of race, sex, and gender, feminist philosophy, ethics, bioethics,
animal ethics). website: rebeccatuvel.com
ASSISTANT PROFESSORS
Jared Millson.  2021. B.A. Boston University; Ph.D. Emory University: epistemology, logic,
philosophy of language, philosophy of science, philosophy of mind. website:
jamillson.com 
STAFF
Christie Arnold, Departmental Assistant.
Printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/philosophy/philosophy-faculty-
and-staff
Requirements for a Major in Philosophy
A total of forty-four (44) credits as follows:
   1. Philosophy 200 (Critical Reasoning), Philosophy 222 (Ethics), Senior Seminar 486
   2. At least one course from each of the following categories:
        A.  Knowledge and Reasoning:
               Logic (310), Epistemology (319)
        B.  Social Philosophy:
              Philosophy of Race and Racism (220),  Justice,  Equality, and Liberty (225),
Feminist Philosophy (355),  
              
         C. History of Philosophy:Programs of Study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53
169 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 PM
               Ancient Philosophy (201), Modern Political Philosophy (345)
   3. Electives: Five additional courses, only two of which can be at the 100-level and two
of which must be at the 300-400 level. See  "Courses of Instruction" for titles
and descriptions of all Philosophy courses. Humanities 201( Philosophy track) may be
counted as one of those courses.
Printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/philosophy/requirements-major-
philosophy
Requirements for a Minor in Philosophy
A total of twenty (20) credits as follows:
1. Philosophy 200 (Critical Reasoning)
2. One 300-level course or above
3. Three additional courses at any level (no more than one 100 level course can count
toward the minor). Humanities 201 (Philosophy track) may be counted as one of
those courses.
Printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/philosophy/requirements-minor-
philosophy
Honors in Philosophy
1. Courses required: fulﬁllment of the requirements for a major in Philosophy.
2. Honors course: Philosophy 399
3. Examination: an oral examination on the honors essay and related ﬁeld is required.
4. Approval of the honors project by the Philosophy Department Honors Committee is
required.
Printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/philosophy/honors-philosophy
Philosophy, Politics and Economics
The interdisciplinary Philosophy, Politics and Economics program reﬂects the intersection
and cross-fertilization of three historically connected and deeply intertwined intellectualPrograms of Study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53
170 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 PM
disciplines: philosophy, politics and economics. The purpose of this program is to involve
students in a direct and sustained study of the complex of moral and practical
considerations, quandaries, and disputes that arise at the intersection of these disciplines.
The program and the associated major study the many ways that politics, moral principles,
and economics interact in the formation of policy choices and resulting outcomes. The
impact of political and economic choices on the prosperity and well-being of citizens,
particularly distributional consequences, remains critical in every society.
Printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/philosophy-politics-and-
economics
Philosophy, Politics and Economics: Program
Committee
Shameel Ahmad , Department of Economics
Stephen Ceccoli , Department of International Studies
Courtney Collins , Department of Economics
Daniel Cullen , Department of Philosophy
Rebecca Tuvel , Department of Philosophy
Stephen Wirls , Department of Philosophy, Chair
Printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/philosophy-politics-and-
economics/philosophy-politics-and-economics-program
Requirements for a Major in Philosophy, Politics and
Economics
A total of 12 courses (48 credits) as follows:
1. Philosophy, Politics and Economics 110 (or Philosophy 110, same course cross-
listed), 486.
2. Economics 100 and 323; Economics 201 or 202.
3. International Studies 310 or 311.
4. Philosophy 225, 345.
5. One methods course from: Economics 290, International Studies 270, Politics and
Law 270
6. Elective Courses (12 credits), choosing from:Programs of Study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53
171 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 PM
◦ Economics 201 or 202 (in addition to course taken in #2 above), 308,  310, 312,
338, 339, 343, 407 as well as the following two-credit courses: ECON 311, 318,
319
◦ International Studies  310 or 311  (in addition to course taken in #3 above), 263,
452
◦ Philosophy 216, 220, 221, 222, 230, 301, 322
◦ Politics and Law 205, 380 (with permission of the program director)
◦ Research methods course (in addition to the course taken in #5 above): ECON
290, INTS 270, PLAW 270   
Printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/philosophy-politics-and-
economics/requirements-major-philosophy-politics-and
Physics
All prospective physics majors should consult with a facutly member in the department  as
early as possible. Prospective physics majors should try to take Physics 111-112 and its
associated laboratory in their ﬁrst year, along with Mathematics 112 (if needed)  and
Mathematics 122 (Integral Calculus). Physics 101, 105, and 107 may not be used for
credit towards a major or minor in physics, but they may be used for general degree
credits.
Students planning to pursue graduate study in engineering are strongly encouraged to
earn the Pre-Engineering Certiﬁcate . Students planning to pursue a dual degree program
in engineering should consult with the faculty member  who serves as the pre-engineering
advisor (Dr. Ann Viano, Department of Physics) as early as possible after beginning
coursework at Rhodes.
Printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/physics
Honors in Physics
1. Courses required: those listed for the B.S. degree with a major in Physics, plus
Physics 495-496, Honors Tutorial. At least four credits per semester in the senior
year must be earned in Honors Tutorial courses. Up to eight additional credits of
tutorial or related course work may be counted, resulting in a maximum of sixteen
credits of Honors in the senior year.Programs of Study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53
172 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 PM
2. To be eligible for the Honors program a student must have a minimum cumulative
grade point average and a major grade point average of 3.50  at the time of
application for honors. The student must graduate with a cumulative grade point
average and a major grade point average of 3.50  in order to receive the honors
designation at commencement.
3. An original investigation in some area of physics  is required. Honors research may
be conducted outside of the department  with department approval and the careful
guidance of a Physics faculty member at Rhodes.
4. A thesis must be presented at the end of the project. An oral presentation of the ﬁnal
project is also expected. The Honors project and thesis must be approved by the
student’s Honors committee and the project must follow the department and college
guidelines and schedule for Honors work.
Printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/physics/honors-physics
Physics: Faculty and Staff
Professors
Brent K. Hoffmeister . 1996. B.A., Wabash College; Ph.D., Washington University.
(Ultrasonics, medical physics.)
Shubho Banerjee . 2002. M.S., Indian Institute of Technology, Kanpur; Ph.D., Carnegie
Mellon University. (Electrostatics, thermodynamics, theoretical physics.)
Associate Professors
Ann M. Viano . 1999. Chair. B.S., Santa Clara University; Ph.D., Washington University.
(Materials science, solid-state physics, medical imaging, biophysics.)
David S. N. Rupke . 2010. B.S., Calvin College; Ph.D., University of Maryland.
(Observational and extragalactic astronomy.)
Assistant Professor
Gregory B. Vieira . 2019. B.S., University of Maryland; Ph.D., The Ohio State University.
(Magnetic materials and devices.)
Instructional Support Specialist
Victor O. Obadina (Lanre) . 2013. B.S., Fisk University; M.S., Alabama A&M University.
Engineering Technologist  Programs of Study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53
173 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 PM
Stewart White . 2022. B.S., California State University; A.A.S., Southwest Tennessee
Community College; M.S., Christian Brothers University.
Administrative Assistant
Kate Collier . 2022. B.A., Concord University; M.P.A., University of Memphis; M.A.,
Christian Brothers University.
Printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/physics/physics-faculty-and-staff
Requirements for a Major in Physics Leading to the B.S.
Degree
A total of ﬁfty-one (51) credits as follows:
1. Physics 111-112 (or 109-110 with departmental approval), 113-114.
2. Physics 211 and 213.
3. Physics 250.
4. Physics 301, 305, 401, and 406.
5. Physics 486.
6. At least 4 additional Physics credits at the 200-level or above.
7. At least 4 additional Physics credits at the 300-level or above.
8. Mathematics 122 and 223.  
Mathematics 112/113 (Precalculus and Differential Calculus) should be taken by those
who have not had a differential calculus course in high school or elsewhere before taking
Mathematics 122 (Integral Calculus). Mathematics 122 (Integral Calculus) is a prerequisite
for Physics 211. Mathematics 223 (Multivariable Calculus) is a prerequisite for Physics
250.  All math requirements for the major should be completed by the middle of the second
year.
Students planning to pursue graduate study in physics are strongly encouraged to take as
many upper-level elective physics courses as possible. Other recommended courses
include Mathematics 251 (Differential Equations), 261 (Linear Algebra), 311 (ProbabilityPrograms of Study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53
174 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 PM
Theory), 312 (Mathematical Statistics), 324 (Vector and Advanced  Calculus),   370
(Complex Variables). Computer Science 141 (Programming Fundamentals) and 142
(Object-Oriented Programming) also are recommended.
Students planning to pursue graduate study in engineering are strongly encouraged to
earn the Pre-Engineering Certiﬁcate . Students planning to pursue a dual degree program
in engineering should consult with the faculty member  who serves as the pre-engineering
advisor as early as possible after beginning coursework at Rhodes.
Physics majors are encouraged to consider study abroad opportunities, and should
consult with their academic advisor about suitable options.
Printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/physics/requirements-major-
physics-leading-bs-degree
Major Essay
When declaring a major in Physics, students must submit an essay to their academic
advisor for approval.  This essay should be 250 - 500 words and should include:
1. A statement of your goals in pursuing a physics major;
2. Areas of physics that represent your greatest interests (e.g., astrophysics);
3. A brief description of other academic concentrations you are planning (e.g., a minor
in mathematics) and how those areas complement your interests in physics;
4. A description of your plans after graduation.
Printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/physics/requirements-major-
physics-leading-bs-degree/major-essay
Requirements for a Minor in Physics
A total of twenty (20) credits as follows:
1. Physics 111-112 (or 109-110 with departmental approval) and Physics  113-114.
2. Physics 211.  
3. At least one additional 4-credit Physics course at the 200-level or above.
4. Mathematics 122.  Programs of Study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53
175 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 PM
Mathematics 112/113 (Precalculus and Differential Calculus) should be taken by any
student who has not had a course in differential calculus in high school or elsewhere.
Mathematics 223 (Multivariable Calculus) is recommended, but not required, and is a
prerequisite for many upper-level physics courses.
Note: The College requires that at least four of the courses in the minor be outside the
requirements of the student's major or majors and any other minors. Students majoring in
Chemistry or Mathematics who intend to minor in Physics should be especially mindful of
this requirement.
Printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/physics/requirements-minor-
physics
Requirements for a Pre-Engineering Certiﬁcate
Physics or Chemistry majors planning for graduate work and/or careers in
engineering can earn a Pre-Engineering Certiﬁcate from Rhodes by completing the
following listed courses.  
For Physics majors interested in mechanical or electrical engineering:
1. Physics 111-112*
2. Mathematics 251, Computer Science 141, Chemistry 120/125L
3. Physics 220*
4. Physics 304 or 307*
5. One approved experiential component, such as: 4 credits of research*, summer
research or engineering-related internship
For Physics majors interested in biomedical engineering:
1. Physics111-112*
2. Mathematics 251, Computer Science 141, Chemistry 120/125L
3. Chemistry 211 or 240 (with instructor permission) or 2nd semester of general
chemistry taken elsewhere
4. Biology 130/131L and 140,141LPrograms of Study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53
176 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 PM
5. One approved experiential component, such as: 4 credits of research*, summer
research or engineering-related internship
6. Physics 220 is recommended but not required*
For Chemistry majors interested in chemical engineering:   
1. Physics 111-112* and 220.
2. Physics 304 or 307.
3. Mathematics 223 and 251.
4. Computer Science 141.
5. One approved experiential component, such as: 4 credits of research*, summer
research or an engineering-related internship.
*also fulﬁlls major requirements
Note: students interested in pursuing engineering work immediately after college may wish
to consider the dual degree options through the academic partnerships for engineering at
Rhodes.  https://catalog.rhodes.edu/educational-program/academic-partnerships  
Printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/physics/requirements-pre-
engineering-certiﬁcate
Politics and Law
The Politics and Law Department offers a Political Science major that prepares students to
address fundamental questions of equality, liberty, and justice; the history of political
philosophy; the constitutional structure of government in the U.S., and the major
institutions of national politics, urban politics, and public policy.  
Printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/politics-and-law
For Students Considering a Career in LawPrograms of Study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53
177 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 PM
The Politics and Law Department's Political Science major is especially good for those
interested in a career in law. The American Bar Association identiﬁes a set of skills and
bodies of knowledge that students considering a career in law should develop through
their undergraduate education, and the Political Science major concentrates on all of
these to a very high degree. These core skills and values include "analytic and problem-
solving skills," "critical reading abilities," "writing skills," "oral communication and listening
abilities," and "general research skills," among others.* The Political Science major
curriculum will involve you repeatedly in academic work that hones each of these, and
covers areas of knowledge the ABA considers important preparation for law school: a
comprehension of the contemporary American political and legal systems; political
development of the United States; the fundamental principles of political thought; a basic
understanding of human behavior and social interaction; and the ability to organize,
manage, and analyze data in the process of conducting research. Law-related internships
or co-curricular activities may also be appropriate.
*www.Americanbar.org/groups/legal_education/resources/pre_law
Printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/politics-and-law/students-
considering-career-law
Honors in Politics and Law
Honors work in the Politics and Law Department affords an opportunity for Political
Science majors to investigate topics of their own choosing. In the process, they will be
expanding and honing their research and writing skills, which is excellent preparation for
graduate and professional degree work. Majors pursuing honors will devote a substantial
portion of their last two semesters at Rhodes to their projects (honors work earns eight-
twelve credits across two semesters). To be eligible, a student must have completed 28
credits of course work in the major and have a grade point average of 3.5 or higher in the
college and in Politics and Law courses. Honors guidelines are available from the
chairperson of the department.
Printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/politics-and-law/honors-politics-
and-law
Politics and Law: Faculty and Staff
Professors
Michael Nelson . 1991. Fulmer Professor of Political Science. B.A., College of William and
Mary; M.A. and Ph.D., The Johns Hopkins University. (American Presidency; SouthernPrograms of Study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53
178 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 PM
Politics; American politics.)
Marcus D. Pohlmann . Emeritus 1986. B.A., Cornell College; M.A., M.Phil. and Ph.D.,
Columbia University. (American politics; legal studies; education policy, black political
thought.)
Associate Professors
Erin A. Dolgoy . 2013. M.A. and Ph.D., Michigan State University. (Political theory,
science and technology studies, American politics.)
Assistant Professors
Anna S. Eldridge . 2012. B.A., Rhodes College; J.D., Duke University. (Legal studies,
internships, pre-law advising.)
Thomas Goodman . 2021. B.S., Northeastern University; M.A. Boston College; Ph.D.
Boston College (American Politics, Congress, campaigns and elections)
Kyu Chul (Casey) Shin . 2021. B.A., Ursinus College; Ph.D., West Virginia University
(American politics, race and ethnic studies, public policy, global affairs)
Director of Mock Trial
Anna R. Smith . 2012. B.A., Rhodes College; J.D. Duke University. (Legal studies;
internships.)
Staff
Hannah Guess.  2020. Departmental Assistant. B.A. and M.A., University of Memphis.
Printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/politics-and-law/politics-and-law-
faculty-and-staff
Requirements for a Major in Political Science with
Concentration in Politics and Law
The Department of Politics and Law offers students an opportunity to undertake an
intensive study of the Constitution, law, and judicial branch of government, in the Politics
and Law concentration.  All students who decide to concentrate in Politics and Law must
do a public affairs internship focused on jurisprudence.
A total of forty-four (44) credits as follows:Programs of Study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53
179 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 PM
1. PLAW 151: U. S. Politics.
2. PLAW 270: Research Methods.
3. PLAW 485: Senior Seminar.
4. One course in political thought and philosophy.
5. International Studies 110 or International Studies 120.
6. PLAW 460: Public Affairs Internship with a law concentration.
7. Five additional courses (20  credits) in Political and Law, two of which must be at the
300 level. Students may count up to two International Studies courses towards their
major.
In satisfying the requirements above, the Politics and Law concentration requires students
to take any two of the following courses: PLAW 216: Philosophy of Law; PLAW 262: Trial
Procedure; PLAW 264: Rights of the Accused; PLAW 280: Judicial Politics; PLAW 283:
Topics in Public Law; and PLAW 301: Civil Liberties. Students may petition the chair to
count one non-Politics and Law course that focuses on the study of jurisprudence as a
substitute for one of the aforementioned courses.
PLAW 263 does not count toward a Political Science major.
Printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/politics-and-law/requirements-
major-political-science-concentration-politics-and-law
Requirements for a Political Science Major
A total of forty-four (44) credits as follows:
1. PLAW 151: U. S. Politics.
2. PLAW 270: Research Methods.
3. PLAW 485: Senior Seminar.
4. One course in political thought and philosophy.
5. International Studies 110 or International Studies 120.
6. Six additional courses (24  credits) in Political and Law, two of which must be at the
300 level. Students may count up to two International Studies courses towards theirPrograms of Study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53
180 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 PM
major. PLAW 460, Public Affairs Internship, may count as a major elective at the 200
level.
PLAW 263 does not count toward a Political Science major.
Printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/politics-and-law/requirements-
political-science-major
Requirements for a Political Science Minor
A total of ﬁve courses or twenty (20) credits as follows:
1. PLAW 151: U. S. Politics.
2. Two courses at the 200-level. Humanities 201 (Politics Track) may count for a 200
level course.
3. Two courses at the 300-level or above.
PLAW 460, Public Affairs Internship, does not count as a course for the Political Science
minor.
PLAW 262 and 263 do not count toward a Political Science minor.
Printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/politics-and-law/requirements-
political-science-minor
The Washington Semester and the Capitol Semester
Politics and Law students may participate in two different semester long programs in
Washington, D.C., each involving courses, an internship, and a research project. Since
special ﬁnancial arrangements are required for these programs, students need to meet
with the Director of the Buckman Center. These programs can be done in the Fall or the
Spring semester. Two of the four courses transferred from the Washington Semester may
satisfy requirements for a Political Science major, and all four of the courses transferred
from the Capitol Semester may satisfy requirements for a Political Science major. Since
some coursework transfers as internship credit, students receiving credit from either of
these programs cannot count an additional PLAW 460 course toward the Political Science
major.
Printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/politics-and-law/washington-
semester-and-capitol-semesterPrograms of Study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53
181 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 PM
Post-Baccalaureate Certiﬁcate in Health Equity
The certiﬁcate in Health Equity is designed to prepare students to become skilled and
compassionate healthcare providers, public health professionals, and policy advocates
who understand how social determinants shape health status and who are committed to
working in solidarity with and to advocating for stigmatized and underserved populations.
Program participants will
• Understand how unjust social conditions cause illness and disease for stigmatized
populations
• Be able to identify and intervene in their own practice and with colleagues when bias
leads to unequal care
• Learn to practice equity-oriented, person-centered care that helps individuals seeking
clinical services feel valued and welcomed
• Learn how policy affects health and how to be an effective advocate for better
policies
Printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/post-baccalaureate-certiﬁcate-
health-equity
Requirements for the Post-Baccalaureate Certiﬁcate in
Health Equity
A total of sixteen (16) credits as follows:
1. HLEQ 510 or HLEQ 410 Health Equity and Disparities
2. HLEQ 515 or HLEQ 415 Intercultural Communication for Health and Healthcare
3. One of the following: HLEQ 520 or HLEQ 420 Developing Cultural Humility, HLEQ
530 Health Humanities and Social Inequality, HLEQ 430 Narrative Medicine and
Inequality
4. HLEQ 540 or HLEQ 440 Politics of Health and Healthcare Policy
5. The program chair may approve substitutions, including the following:
1. HLEQ 445 Research Methods in Health Disparities
2. HLEQ 435 Global Health Local Practice
3. HLEQ 325 Healthcare Ethics and Social InequalityPrograms of Study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53
182 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 PM
4. HLEQ 210 Introduction to Health Equity
5. PHIL 303 Medical Ethics
6. PSYC 220 Psychology of Health
7. ANSO 347 Medical Sociology
8. AFS 350 Race Thinking and Health Disparities
9. URBN 340 Justice in the City
10. URBN 460 Internship
11. URBN 451 Research Practicum
12. URBN 452 Research Practicum
Printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/post-baccalaureate-certiﬁcate-
health-equity/requirements-post-baccalaureate
Psychology
The Department of Psychology helps students develop an understanding of human
behavior and experience a variety of theoretical perspectives. The faculty specialize in a
wide variety of topics, including neuroscience, clinical/counseling, cognitive, social,
developmental, and educational psychology. 
Printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/psychology
Honors in Psychology
Members of the faculty of the Department of Psychology encourage students of
exceptional academic accomplishment to pursue research with a departmental faculty
sponsor that is of an in-depth, rigorous nature; this work will introduce the student to the
quality of research one would normally experience in a graduate program. Because the
level of involvement of the student and their faculty sponsor will be greater in Honors
research than that in either a Tutorial or Directed Inquiry, the faculty of the Department of
Psychology have established rules for student admission into the Departmental Honors
Program. Please contact the Department Chair for a copy of the Honors ResearchPrograms of Study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53
183 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 PM
Guidelines. It is recommended that students interested in pursuing department honors
enroll in Junior Seminar 399.
Printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/psychology/honors-psychology
Major Essay
When declaring a major in psychology, students must submit an essay in which they
articulate their educational goals. The essay should be four paragraphs, with one
paragraph dedicated to each of the questions below (question 3 has two parts.)
1. In your opinion, what are the deﬁning characteristics of the discipline of Psychology?
2. How do the requirements for the Psychology major complement your program of
liberal arts study and support your career or life goals?
3. As a Psychology major, how will you (a) build on your strengths and (b) address your
weaknesses?
The entire essay should be between 250 and 1000 words and must accompany the
Declaration of Major form when a student has the initial meeting with their  major advisor. A
student may choose to revise the essay after meeting with the advisor. Students will
electronically submit the ﬁnal, advisor approved, version of the essay as a Word document
to the psychology departmental assistant so that it can be archived. The ﬁle name for the
essay should be as follows: student’s last name, student’s ﬁrst name, and graduation
year. 
Printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/psychology/major-essay
Psychology: Faculty and Staff
Professors
Natalie Person . 1994. B.A., University of Mississippi; Ph.D., University of Memphis.
(Cognitive; learning technologies; educational psychology.)
Elizabeth Thomas . 2011. B.A., Georgetown University, Ph.D., University of Illinois at
Urbana-Champaign. (Urban Studies; community psychology; psychology and the arts.)
Katherine White . 2009. B.A., Rhodes College;  Ph.D., University of Florida. (Cognitive;
language and memory; cognitive aging.)Programs of Study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53
184 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 PM
Associate Professors
Jason Haberman . 2014. B.A., University of Miami; M.A. and Ph.D., University of
California - Davis. (Neuroscience: visual psychophysics; object recognition, ensemble
perception.)
Kiren Khan . 2017. A.B., University of Pennsylvania; Ph.D., The Pennsylvania State
University. (Developmental  Psychology;  narrative development in young children.)
Rebecca Klatzkin . 2011. B.S., University of Richmond; Ph.D., University of North
Carolina, Chapel Hill. (Behavioral neuroscience: stress; eating behavior; binge eating
disorder.)
Geoffrey Maddox . 2013. B.A., University of Missouri; M.A., Ph.D., Washington University
in St. Louis. (Cognitive: Aging and development.)
Matthew Weeks . 2001. B.A., Kentucky Wesleyan College; Ph.D., University of Memphis.
(Social; social cognition; stereotyping.)
Assistant Professors
Amanda Hasselle.  2021. B.A., Trinity University; M.S., PhD., University of Memphis.
(Clinical: Child and Family Studies)
Katherine (Kailey) Lawson . 2022. B.A., Pomona College; M.A., Ph.D., University of
California - Davis (Social-Personality: nature, development, and assessment of personality
traits) 
Laura Shanahan . 2022.  B.S., University of Wisconsin, Madison; Ph.D., Northwestern
University. (Neuroscience: cognitive neuroscience, sleep, sensory systems).
Staff
Anjeanette Tiamiyu . Departmental Assistant.
Printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/psychology/psychology-faculty-
and-staff
Requirements for a Major in Psychology
A total of 11 courses  or forty-four (44) credits in the major as follows:  
1. Psychology 150 to be taken as early as possible in the student’s course of study.Programs of Study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53
185 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 PM
2. Psychology 200 and 211 should be taken as early as possible. Ideally they should be
completed by the spring semester of the sophomore year.
3. At least one course from each of the following ﬁve content domains (At least three  of
these courses must be core courses (bolded) from separate domains). * each course
can only count in one content domain:  
1. Developmental Across the Lifespan: Psychology 222,  229, 230, 231, 306*. 
2. Cognition and Learning: Psychology 216*, 306*, 327, 345/345L. 
3. Biological Bases of Behavior: Psychology 216*, 317* or 318*,
344/344L;  Neuroscience  270. 
4. Sociocultural Bases of Behavior and Experience: Psychology 232, 240, 280,
323, 330. 
5. Health and Well-Being: 218,  220, 224, 311, 324, 317* or 318*, 338.  
4. One course should be a 300-level course from one of the content domains.
5. One advanced methods course from among Psychology 350 – 353 that should be
taken junior year. Before taking a particular advanced methods course, students
should complete PSYC 200 and 211, as well as the core course that relates to
it.
6. One community-based or independent investigation course: Psychology 229 (some
sections), 231, 330, 451, 452, 460, 495, or 496; Education  360 or 460.
7. One other course in psychology (only one 105 course may count) or one of the
following: EDUC 222, URBN 250, MUS 145. 
8. Psychology 485 to be taken during the senior year.
Printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/psychology/requirements-major-
psychology
Requirements for a Minor in Psychology
A total of 6 courses or twenty-four (24) credits as follows:
1. Psychology 150.Programs of Study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53
186 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 PM
2. Psychology 200.
3. Four additional psychology courses (or Neuroscience 270) to be chosen in
consultation with a departmental advisor and to be approved by the department
chair. These will be selected to coordinate with the student’s major and career
aspirations, and will normally include at least one 300- or 400-level course. Only one
105 course may count.
Printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/psychology/requirements-minor-
psychology
Religious Studies
The Department of Religious Studies promotes the academic study of religion by offering
courses that explore the diverse aspects of religious traditions. Particular emphasis is
given to the origins, history, and relevance of religion in contemporary life.
Printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/religious-studies
Honors in Religious Studies
Honors research in Religious Studies is established by consultation between the student
and the department. In addition to the courses required for a major, the honors program
requires the one-hour junior honors tutorial, Religious Studies 399, and the senior honors
tutorials, Religious Studies 495-496, in which the student will be guided in the research
and writing of an honors paper.
Printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/religious-studies/honors-religious-
studies
Religious Studies: Faculty and Staff
Professors
Patrick Gray . 2002.  The Albert Bruce Curry Professor of Religious Studies. B.A.,
Oglethorpe University; M.T.S., Ph.D., Emory University. (New Testament; history of biblical
interpretation; Greco-Roman moral philosophy)
Stephen R. Haynes . 1989.   B.A., Vanderbilt University; M.A., Florida State University;Programs of Study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53
187 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 PM
M.Div., Columbia Theological Seminary; Ph.D., Emory University. (Holocaust studies;
religion and politics; religion and literature; religion and education)
Steven L. McKenzie . 1983. The Spence L. Wilson Senior Research Fellow. B.A., M.Div.,
Abilene Christian University; Th.D., Harvard University. (Old Testament; Hebrew)
Associate Professors
Thomas Bremer . 2001. B.A., The Ohio State University; M.A., Ph.D., Princeton
University. (History of religion in America)
John C. Kaltner . Chair. 1996. The Virginia Ballou McGehee Professor of Muslim-Christian
Relations. B.A., State University of New York at Oswego; M.A., Maryknoll School of
Theology; S.S.L., Pontiﬁcal Biblical Institute; Ph.D., Drew University. (Biblical studies;
Islam)
Bernadette McNary-Zak . 1999. B.A., University of Rochester; M.A., Catholic University of
America; Ph.D., University of Toronto. (Early Christianity)
Sarah E. Rollens.  2015. The R. A. Webb Professor of Religious Studies. B.A., University
of North Carolina at Wilmington; M.A., University of Alberta; Ph.D., University of Toronto
(New Testament;  Early Christianity)
Brooke Schedneck.  2017. The W. J. Millard Professor of  Religious Studies. B.A., Boston
University; M.T.S. Harvard University; Ph.D., Arizona State University. (Asian religions.) 
Assistant Professors
Raissa von Doetinchem de Rande. 2020. M.A., University of Oxford; M.A.R., Yale
University; M.A., Princeton University; Ph.D., Princeton University. (Islamic
studies;  ethics.)
Beck Henricksen . 2023. B.S., B.A., Biola University; M.A. Yale Divinity School; M.A.,
Brown University; Ph.D., University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill. (Gender and sexuality
studies; Africana studies)
Shatavia L. Wynn . 2022. B.A., Claﬂin University; M.A., Yale University Divinity School;
Ph.D., Vanderbilt University. (African American religion; Africana studies)Programs of Study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53
188 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 PM
Part-Time Faculty
Micah D. Greenstein.  2020. B.A., Cornell University; M.P.A., Harvard University; Rabbinic
Ordination, M.A.H.L., D.D.,  Hebrew Union College-Jewish Institute of Religion. (Judaism)
Jonathan C. Lewis.  2021. B.A., University of Georgia; M.Div., Duke Divinity School;
D.Min., Memphis Theological Seminary. (Religious studies; Speech communications;
Pastoral care and counseling; Narrative medicine) 
Staff
Christie Arnold , Departmental Assistant.
Printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/religious-studies/religious-
studies-faculty-and-staff
Requirements for a Major in Religious Studies
A total of thirty-six (36) credits as follows:
1. Religious Studies 255, 256; One of the following: 251, 253 or 258.
2. One 200-level course in Bible (260, 270-277, 280-286).
3. One 200-level course in theology and ethics (211, 220, 232, 233). The Religion track
of HUM 201 can count toward this requirement.
4. Three 300-level courses. (Religious Studies 399, the Junior Honors Tutorial, does not
count towards fulﬁlling this requirement.)
5. Religious Studies 485 (Religious Studies 256 and at least one 300-level course must
be completed prior to taking Religious Studies 485.)
Note: The Health Equity Internships (Religious Studies 460) may count toward fulﬁlling the
third requirement for the Religious Studies major.
Printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/religious-studies/requirements-
major-religious-studies
Requirements for a Minor in Religious StudiesPrograms of Study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53
189 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 PM
A total of twenty (20) credits as follows:
1. Religious Studies 101 and 102 or Humanities 101 and 102.
2. Two 200-level courses in different areas of Religious Studies (biblical studies,
theology and ethics, history of religions). Certain courses (e.g., Humanities 201 or
AMS  250) can fulﬁll this requirement when cross-listed as Religious Studies courses.
3. One 300-level Religious Studies seminar in any area.
Note: The Health Equity Internships (Religious Studies 460) may count toward fulﬁlling the
second requirement for the Religious Studies minor.
Printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/religious-studies/requirements-
minor-religious-studies
Reserve Ofﬁcer Training Programs
Rhodes, in cooperation with the University of Memphis and the Departments of the Army,
Navy, and Air Force, participates in crosstown agreements that provide the opportunity for
Rhodes students to enroll in Aerospace Studies (Air Force ROTC),  Military Science (Army
ROTC), and Naval Science (Navy ROTC)  at The University of Memphis. Upon successful
completion of the reserve ofﬁcer training programs and the undergraduate degree at
Rhodes, a student receives a commission as a second lieutenant in the appropriate
military service.
The curriculum for the ROTC program is reviewed by the Faculty of Rhodes and the
appropriate credits are assigned. The student who participates in the ROTC programs will
have to complete all requirements as speciﬁed by the military service departments,
including summer training camps, if the commission as an ofﬁcer is to be granted.
A Rhodes student may earn a maximum of sixteen credits in the ROTC programs and
apply fourteen of these credits to the 128 credits needed for a Rhodes degree.   Credit
earned in ROTC is counted as elective credit, and it is listed on the student’s transcript as
ROTC credit with the appropriate course titles. To be eligible to participate in the
Consortium, students must enroll in at least twelve (12) hours per semester at Rhodes to
be considered full time.  Credits enrolled in during a given semester are included in the
count of credits for a normal course load. (The credit shown below applies to the 16-credit
provision.) Although a student takes the ROTC courses at The University of Memphis, that
student is a full-time student at Rhodes, and any ﬁnancial assistance provided by the
military services is based on tuition and fees at Rhodes.
Aerospace StudiesPrograms of Study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53
190 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 PM
The Aerospace Studies program is in two parts. The ﬁrst-year/sophomore-level program,
the General Military Course, is open to all students. The junior/senior level program, the
Professional Ofﬁcer Course, is available only to selected, eligible students who desire to
earn commissions as ofﬁcers in the United States Air Force while pursuing their academic
studies at Rhodes. Participants in the POC program and those in the GMC on AFROTC
scholarships receive a monthly subsistence allowance from the Air Force. Graduate
students who qualify are also eligible for POC enrollment.
Air Force ROTC scholarships which pay all or a portion of certain college costs (tuition,
book allowance, and certain fees) are available on a competitive basis, to entering ﬁrst-
year students and to cadets participating in the AFROTC program. Details are available
from the Ofﬁce of Admissions and Financial Aid or from the Department of Aerospace
Studies at the University of Memphis. Students wishing to participate should contact the
Unit Admissions Ofﬁcer, AFROTC Detachment 785, Department of Aerospace Studies,
University of Memphis, at 678-2681. Students may also access AFROTC Detachment
785’s website at www.afrotc.memphis.edu and/or the AFROTC website at
www.afrotc.com.
Military Science
The Military Science program provides a four year course of military instruction designed
to provide qualiﬁed students with the attributes and competencies in the art of US Army
leadership,  The program is divided into two sections each consisting of a two year
duration.   The ﬁrst, called the Basic Course, offers an introduction to the US Army, basic
soldier skills, roles and responsibilities, offership, and military doctrine.   The second, called
the Advanced Course, expands upon the basic course and offers leadership experience,
advanced military doctrine, and prepares the student for commissioning as a US Army
Ofﬁcer.  Students may apply for the four year program, Basic Course, or Advanced
Course.
Department faculty and staff are active duty Army personnel detailed by the Department of
the Army and approved by the University of Memphis President.   The Army ofﬁcers are
appointed by the University of Memphis as Professor or Assistant Professor of Military
Science.   Students interested in enrolling in any Military Science course should contact
the Department of Military Science Recruiting Operations Ofﬁcer at (901)678-2934.
Printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/reserve-ofﬁcer-training-programs
Rhodes Study Abroad and Away Programs
About 65 percent of Rhodes students take advantage of learning opportunities off-campus
and in other countries, most often during their sophomore and junior years. And whilePrograms of Study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53
191 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 PM
language and culture are common subjects of study, specialized programs abound and
help students develop real-world skills in their discipline. In most cases, students pay
tuition, room, and board as normal to Rhodes, including any federal and institutional aid
they normally receive, which covers their tuition, room, and board while on the program.
How to Get Started
The Buckman Center  for international education manages the off-campus and study
abroad component for Rhodes College. To get started, explore the  Online Portal for Off-
Campus Study , which helps you plan ahead, search for you programs, and apply for
programs. 
Types of Programs
Rhodes Summer Programs  - Every year, Rhodes faculty plan programs off-campus for
Rhodes students. These are commonly referred to as Rhodes “Maymesters.” The Online
Portal has a list of current programs. As these are Rhodes programs, credit earned is
Rhodes credit. No institutional or federal aid is portable for summer programs. However,
the Buckman Center has many need-based scholarships available.
Rhodes Semester Programs  - Rhodes, Sewanee, and Centre College jointly
own/operate three semester-long off-campus study programs: the "New York City
Internship Program" (NYC, USA), the "Global Ghana: History and the Diaspora Program"
(Accra, Ghana), and the "Global Environmental Challenges Program" (Cuenca, Ecuador).
These programs are Rhodes programs, meaning that all credit earned is Rhodes credit
and Rhodes' portable institutional and federal aid applies. Students from all three schools
will enroll in these programs and the faculty leaders are drawn from each of the schools
on a rotating basis. These programs operate in the fall, only.
ISEP and Bilateral Exchanges  – Rhodes students have access to exchange
programs  worldwide. Our formal bilateral exchange agreements are with The University of
Antwerp, Belgium; The University of Poitiers, France; Nebrissensis University, Madrid,
Spain; The University of Tübingen, Germany; The University of Koblenz-Landau,
Germany; The University of Aberdeen, Scotland; The University of Kent, England; The
University of Lima, Peru; Rhodes University, Grahamstown, South Africa; and The
Iberoamericana University in Puebla, Mexico. Students pay tuition (in some case, room
and board) to Rhodes and receive tuition (in some cases, room and board) on the
program. Rhodes institutional aid and federal/state aid are portable for these programs.
Exchanges can occur in any discipline and can range in length from one semester to one
academic year. In most cases, exchange students are matriculated directly into the host
institution and pursue courses with host country students. Credit earned on exchange
programs is treated as transfer credit. The number of students who can participate on
exchange programs is limited.Programs of Study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53
192 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 PM
Rhodes is also a member of ISEP (The International Student Exchange Program), an
organization of more than 200 colleges and universities located throughout the United
States and in Africa, Asia, Australia, Canada, Europe and Latin America. Students pay
tuition, room, and board to Rhodes and receive tuition, room and board on the program.
Rhodes institutional aid and federal/state aid are portable for these programs. Exchanges
can occur in any discipline and can range in length from one semester to one academic
year. In most cases, exchange students are matriculated directly into the host institution
and pursue courses with host country students. Credit earned on exchange programs is
treated as transfer credit. The number of students who can participate on exchange
programs is limited.
Afﬁliated Programs  - In addition to Rhodes Programs and Exchange Programs, Rhodes
has semester- and year-long Afﬁliated Partnerships with numerous other colleges,
universities and international organizations. Students participating on an Afﬁliated
Program pay tuition, room, and board (in some cases, partial or no board) to Rhodes and
receive tuition, room and board (or partial or no board) on the off-campus program.
Rhodes institutional aid and federal/state aid are portable for these programs. Credit
earned on Afﬁliated programs is treated as transfer credit.
In the case of an Afﬁliated Summer Program, students pay the program out of pocket; no
institutional or federal aid is portable for summer programs. However, the Buckman Center
has need-based scholarships available.
Printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/rhodes-study-abroad-and-away-
programs
Global Environmental Challenges
Studnets will spend their semester in the highlands of Ecuador, learning about local and
global environmental challenges while immersing themselves in the Spanish language.
The Global Environmental Challenges program explores various environmental issues of
today and tomorrow through an integrated lens of science and humanities. The ﬁrst 12
weeks of the program take place in the highlands of Cuenca, Ecuador, a UNESCO World
Heritage site. Students live in a homestay with an Ecuadorian family, being fully immersed
in a Spanish speaking community. No previous Spanish language experience is necessary
- students will be placed in one Spanish class at the appropriate level. An additional three
courses (taught in English) complete the semester, centering around the local and global
environmental challenges facing this region and how people are meeting them.
After the initial 12 weeks of the program, students synthesize what they've learned so far
in a ﬁnal three-week module at two remote, world-class ecological research stations: one
week at the Tiputini Biodiversity Station in the Amazon River basin  and two weeks at thePrograms of Study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53
193 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 PM
Galapagos Science Center on San Cristóbal Island in the Galápagos Islands. During this
intense module, students will gain hand-on experience in data collection and learn about
the speciﬁc challenges facing this region of the world.
For the entirety of the program, students have the opportunity of a lifetime to will engage
in ﬁeld trips to local communities and organizations to learn more about the environmental
issues brought up in class. They will be able to engage with a plethora of environmental
issues and reﬂect on the differences between their own linguistic and cultural backgrounds
and those found in their host communities.
Students from three schools, Rhodes, Centre, and Sewanee, will take part in this unique
liberal arts collaboration examining these timely and important questions. The Program
Leader for each fall will be a faculty member from one of these schools.
This is a Rhodes program and all courses are Rhodes courses. The grades will appear on
the student's transcript as grades earned and will be factored into the Rhodes GPA. F11
will be granted for successful completion of the program.  Student applications are on the
Buckman Center's website.
Courses available for fall 2023:
• Tropical Biology: Taught by the Program Leader, Dr. Michael Collins of Rhodes
College. (ENVS 108, 4 credits).  
• Linking the Local to the Global: Taught by David Siddons, MSc, of the Universidad
de Azuay (ENVS 207, 4 credits).  
• Environment, Conservation and Policy Issues: Taught by Dr. Leo Zurita Arthos of
the Universidad San Fransisco de Quito (USFQ). (ENVS 107, 4 credits).  
• Spanish Language per each student's individual level:  Taught by instructors at
Cuenca's Sampere Institute, the site of the Rhodes Ecuaodor Maymester for over 20
years. (Spanish language, 4 credits). F10 is granted for successful completion of
Español 201, B1:1. There are no Spanish prerequisites for this  program. All students
will be placed into a Spanish language course at their level. "Prerequisite" is
understood as the Rhodes course listed, the equivalent, or permission of the Rhodes
Director of Spanish.
Course Descriptions:
Tropical Biology: This course surveys the diversity of tropical ecosystems and examines
the ecological and evolutionary processes that shape them. Through lectures, readings,
discussions, and guest speakers, the course examines foundational theories and major
themes in tropical biology, including species diversity, adaptations and coevolution,
community structure, biogeography, and conservation challenges. The course uses
Ecuador as a model to illustrate general principles and contemporary issues in tropical
ecology and conservation. By the end of this course, you’ll be able to A: Identify majorPrograms of Study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53
194 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 PM
tropical ecosystems, describe their climatic and biological characteristics, and explain the
fundamental reasons tropical systems differ from temperate ones. B: Understand the
ecological and evolutionary mechanisms that shape patterns of species diversity and
explain why there are so many species in the tropics. C: Critically examine the
assumptions and empirical evidence supporting or rejecting hypotheses that have guided
our understanding of tropical ecosystems. D: Understand the major threats to tropical
ecosystems and how ecological principles can inform conservation efforts.
Linking the Local to the Global: This course examines local environmental challenges in
Cuenca, Ecuador and nearby locations. Examples of potential topics include, but are not
limited to: gold mining and its effects on water quality, eco-agricultural sustainable food
production, corn sovereignty (small production vs. large agro-industrial production), and
invasive species of ﬂora and fauna (e.g. introduction of trout in Cajas). Experiential
learning will be a signiﬁcant element of the course and students will regularly visit local
communities, NGOs, museums, governmental ofﬁces, etc. so that students can learn from
those who are most affected by these issues. Additionally, students will observe local
community members’ engagement in political activism, artistic expression, and cultural
practices that illustrate their experiences with the environment and their efforts to pursue
alternative ways of interfacing with the natural world. While each of the environmental
challenges mentioned above is present in and around Cuenca, the course explicitly
explores links to the broader global context. For example, gold mining has a negative
impact on the environment in this region; however, mining has similar effects on various
communities around the world, from coal mining in the southeastern United States to
cobalt mining in central Africa. The course includes discussions around questions such as:
How does the practice affect the environment (land, water, air)?   What are the reasons for
these environmentally damaging practices? How are these practices affecting local and
global communities of people? How are the affected communities employing artistic
expression to illustrate their experiences? What alternatives have been suggested or
implemented? What are the obstacles to achieving solutions?
Environment, Conservation and Policy Issues: In this course, students will be
introduced to the most inﬂuential factors shaping the ecosystems and their conservation
looking at the global, regional and local factors that determine the climates and the
contrasting ecosystems that can be found in Ecuador. The course includes several ﬁeld
visits to the the lowlands of the Ecuadorian Amazon (Tiputini Biodiversity Station) and the
Galápagos Islands, allowing students to experience ﬁrst-hand current topics of
conservation and policy issues, while discussing the main environmental challenges
associated with the conservation of natural ecosystems in tropical developing countries.
Additionally, this course reviews the environmental issues facing contemporary Ecuador in
the context of a transforming global reality. We look at speciﬁc environmental issues that
are of concern for Ecuador and the region including, the oil industry and indigenous
communities in the Amazon Basin, aquaculture, and shrimp farming, introduced species,
large scale ranching and deforestation, ﬁsheries, and the management of fragile marinePrograms of Study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53
195 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 PM
ecosystems such as the Galapagos. We investigate possible solutions that consider
political and ecological pressures, perspectives of indigenous populations,
environmentalists, the governments, NGOs, as well as international investors and
multinational companies. It all revolves around this little but diverse country.
Spanish Language Course: S tudents will enroll in one Spanish language course.
Courses range from Introductory Spanish 101 through Advanced Spanish 425.
Specialized courses at the intermediate and advanced levels include "Cultura y civilización
latinoamericana," "Panorámica de la literatura latinoamericana," and "Español para los
negocios."
Printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/rhodes-study-abroad-and-away-
programs/global-environmental-challenges
Global Ghana: History and the Diaspora
Studying in Accra, Ghana will provide students with a life-changing opportunity to live and
study in a remarkable, historic city where coursework, homestays, and internships will
immerse them in the vibrant and awe-inspiring culture of Ghana. The focus of the program
is the complex intersections in the past and present between modern Ghana and the
African diaspora in the southeastern United States. We will answer questions such as:
What are the connections between Ghana and the US? How do both countries inﬂuence
each other’s music, food, innovation, and fashion? When did the connections in our
politics and economics have their historical beginnings? In this fall semester program,
students will discover the historic and contemporary ties connecting western Africa to the
US diaspora, examining topics ranging from the west African slave trade to the Pan-
African movement and beyond.  
Students from three schools, Rhodes, Centre, and Sewanee, will take part in this unique
liberal arts collaboration examining these intriguing and important questions. The Program
Leader for each fall will be a faculty member from one of these schools.
This is a Rhodes program and all courses are Rhodes courses. The grades will appear on
the student's transcript as grades earned and will be factored into the Rhodes GPA. F11
will be granted for successful completion of the program. Student applications are on the
Buckman Center's website.
Course Credit for Fall 2023:
Students will take four courses, totaling 16 hours. F11 will be granted for satisfactory
completion of this program.
• International Studies 255: Globalization and the Challenges of Development inPrograms of Study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53
196 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 PM
Ghana - 4 credits (F9)
• Music 116: Ghanaian Popular Music - 4 credits (F5)
• History 274: Ghana and West Africa’s Pasts in the Black Atlantic - 4 credits (F3)
• International Studies 264:  Africa in World Politics: Ghanaian Perspectives - 4 credits
• Academic Internship - 4 credits
Course Descriptions:
Globalization and the Challenges of Development in Ghana:
Taught by Dr. Akosua Darkwah of the University of Ghana. (INST 255, 4 credits, F9). This
course will include site visits to locations within Accra that highlight fashion, food, and
gender and entrepreneurship. We will begin with a brief history of markets in Ghana as we
begin to deﬁne "What is Globalization?" From various interpretations and meanings of
globalisation, we will investigate globalization’s inﬂuence on society including cultural
implications. We will discuss topics such as transnationalism, agricultural developments,
real estate, manufacturing, and even alternatives to globalization. How does globalization
interface with social justice movements and women's rights? What part does Ghana play
in international relations for the local region and continent of Africa? We will answer these
and other questions as we explore our global Ghana.
Ghanaian Popular Music:
Taught by  Dr. Eric Doe of the University of Ghana. (MUSC 116, 4 credits, F5). Highlife
music has emerged as one of the most popular world music genres from West Africa in
the last century. The music tradition's success on the world stage is closely associated
with its Trans-Atlantic inﬂuences and the impact of African traditional and imported
Western and Black Diasporic performance norms. The present proliferation and
popularization of various musical styles marketed as 'highlife' or Ghanaian popular music
point to the fact that Ghanaian musical expressions draw their musical characteristics from
indigenous Ghanaian music heritage juxtaposed with ideas borrowed from the West.
Styles are differentiated according to time, place, and cultural inﬂuences concerning
embellishment, language choice, vocal timbres, and instrumental resources. This course
analyses the musical varieties within genres marketed as Ghanaian 'popular' or "highlife"
music. It offers broader political, economic, and socio-historical perspectives on various
factors rooted in ethnicity, gender, identity, Pan-Africanism, and generational class
relations that have contributed to contemporary understandings of Ghanaian ‘popular’ and
highlife music. Our exploration of Highlife will range from the relationships between
Ghanaian and West African music research to the marketing of highlife music today, from
ethnographic approaches to Ghanaian performance to the philosophical and ethical
considerations involved in studying it. Throughout the course, we will consider how
Ghanaian 'popular' musicians and related groups have created a range of sound worlds
under considerable social, political, and commercial pressure.
Academic Internship and weekly seminar:Programs of Study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53
197 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 PM
Led by Dr. Elsie Gaisie-Ahiabu, an international educator based in Accra . An unpaid
academic internship would replace course #1 or #2 above. (Depends on major and pre-
approval from Career Services is required. 4 credits). Students will attend a weekly
seminar in addition to 10+ hours of internship each week. Students will be placed in
internship/service learning assignments at various non-governmental organizations
(NGOs), healthcare providers, research institutes, and other local agencies, referred to as
‘attachments’ in Ghana, that are designed to complement the global health and
development emphasis of the program, as well as to meet the individual interest of each
student. The actual placement of each student will be based on his/her unique academic
background, training, skills, and personal interests. The types of attachments available to
students are numerous and include areas as diverse as health; environment; family
planning; women’s empowerment; new information and communication technologies;
agriculture; education; literacy; culture and arts; tourism; politics; economics and business;
mass media, and others. Internship duties and responsibilities vary depending on the
speciﬁc needs of the organization, however, they can include writing, researching, job
shadowing, interviewing, advising, teaching, community organizing, mentoring, training,
fundraising, photographing, and a variety of other alternatives. The weekly seminar is
designed to assist students in working cross-culturally in Accra and to gain the fullest
beneﬁt from undertaking an international academic internship. Students will also be given
information about ethics, safety, and professionalism in the context of their internship
placements. The seminar may include a site visits, weekend ﬁeld excursions, and day-
long community service projects. The internship carries 4 credits, but the weekly seminar
is non-credit bearing.
Ghana and West Africa’s Pasts in the Black Atlantic*:
Taught by Dr. Koﬁ Baku of the University of Ghana. (HIST 274, 4 credits, F3). This course
will be coupled with an overnight ﬁeld trip to the north of the country, the origins for many
people who were enslaved and then brought to the Ghanaian coast for transport to the
Americas. Student will also visit Cape Coast, the site for two UNESCO World Heritage
sites: the “slave castles” Elmina Castle and Cape Coast Castle. This course provides an
introduction to slavery in Ghana and West Africa and the Atlantic slave trade out of West
Africa. The course uses Ghana as a window to explore the history and material culture of
slavery and the Atlantic slave trade in West Africa. It combines lectures, class discussions,
documentaries, and ﬁeld trips to sites of enslavement, slave markets and resistance to
slavery and student analysis of contemporary sources. Instead of presenting a
comprehensive survey, covering every aspect of this vast subject, this course takes a
topical approach by focusing on a selection of themes and issues that are crucial to
developing an understanding of slavery in Ghana and West Africa and the slave trade
across the Atlantic. Themes to be covered include slavery and nation building in West
Africa, African and European agency in slavery and slave trade; slavery and slave trade in
framing the social structure of Ghana and West Africa; the legacies of slavery in Ghana
and West Africa and the ways in which slavery is remembered in Ghana and West Africa.
Throughout the course, we will pay attention to the debilitating effects of slavery and thePrograms of Study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53
198 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 PM
slave trade on West Africa and on its development.
Africa in World Politics: Ghanaian Perspectives*:
Taught by Dr. Amy Patterson, Sewanee. (INTS 264, 4 credits). This course examines the
challenges, successes, and failures of the continent’s political development, with a
particular focus on Ghana. It begins by investigating how colonialism and nationalism
affected politics, society, and economies. It then examines post-independence
governments, democratic transitions, political institutions, and signiﬁcant political actors.
Using the Ghana case, it questions how ethnicity, gender, and religious identities play into
these dynamics, and it questions how Ghana has been able to develop a stable
democratic system, while many other African countries have experienced authoritarian
rule. Expanding beyond domestic politics, the course pays particular attention to the ways
that the African Union, ECOWAS, and donor nations shape politics in Ghana. In the
process, it links Ghanaian politics and society to diasporic factors and populations.  
*These two courses are mandatory for all participants. Students will select an
additional two courses, or an additional course plus academic internship, for a total
of 16 credits.
Printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/rhodes-study-abroad-and-away-
programs/global-ghana-history-and-diaspora
New York City Internship Program
The New York City Internship Program takes place in the fall semester in NYC and is
composed of one 8-hour internship and two 4-credit classes, for a total of 16 academic
credits.
Students will challenge themselves through an intensive internship and study experience
in the vibrant and culturally and linguistically heterogeneous environment of New York
City. They will gain meaningful, real-world work experience in New York City, learning
experientially in several domains: career readiness and marketability, training in cross-
cultural adaptation to one of the largest and busiest cites in the US, and academically
through the two 4-credit courses offered on this program. One beneﬁt from the urban
setting of New York City is its proximity to museums, libraries, theatres, galleries,
nongovernmental organizations, international organizations, and global industries, such as
ﬁnance.
This pre-professional program leverages our strong alumni community and internship
opportunities in NYC with two academic courses on the history of the people of New YorkPrograms of Study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53
199 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 PM
and the theatre industry on and off Broadway. This is a collaborative program between
Centre, Sewanee, and Rhodes: each school will send students to participate. Student
applications are on the Buckman Center's website.
Course Credit:
F11 will be granted for satisfactory completion of this program.
• Academic Internship – 8 credits
• History 239: New York and Its Peoples, Past and Present – 4 credits (F3)
• Theatre 265: New York Theater Experience: The Building of a Culture and a Career –
4 credits (F5)
Course Descriptions:
History 239: New York and Its Peoples, Past and Present
This course explores New York City by studying the migrants and immigrants who have
settled there since its founding. It explores how migrants and immigrants change New
York, how the city changes them, and the signiﬁcance of ethnic diversity in the city’s
politics and culture. We will read scholarly writings, examine ﬁlms and music as primary
sources, take ﬁeld trips to immigrant neighborhoods, and visit museums devoted to
migration and immigration. At every opportunity, we will venture outside our classroom to
learn about the city through direct observation.
New York City is a place of constant change, but its deﬁning traits have been present
since its earliest times: a dynamic economy that generates both wealth and poverty;
ethnic diversity and ethnically deﬁned neighborhoods; religious pluralism; turf-based
politics that features ethnic mobilizations and coalitions; and a hybrid popular culture. All
of these can be traced to the long history of migration and immigration in New York City. In
this course, you will learn in and from New York City. You will explore the past and present
of the city in light of its migrants (primarily African American and Puerto Rican U.S.
citizens) and immigrants from Europe, Latin America, the Caribbean, and Asia. We’ll study
how migrants and immigrants change New York City, how New York City changes them,
and the enduring signiﬁcance of ethnic diversity in the city’s politics and culture.
Theatre 265: New York Theater Experience: The Building of a Culture and a Career
The class will highlight the personal, cultural, and professional value of theater through
attending eight live performances at a variety of venues: including Broadway, the center of
the global commercial theater world, New York’s Public Theater, the non-proﬁt home
where many great artists and new plays have been developed and nurtured, as well as
others. The class will also offer weekly discussions highlighting the history/mission of each
institution and discussing different professional disciplines within the ﬁeld. The lectures will
be supported by reading of current articles written on key issues within the industry, andPrograms of Study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53
200 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 PM
post show discussions with artist involved in the various productions.
Printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/rhodes-study-abroad-and-away-
programs/new-york-city-internship-program
Summer Programs "Maymesters"
Rhodes Summer Programs, commonly referred to as "Maymesters", take place over the
summer in May, June, July, or August. Generally, programs may begin as early as the day
after Commencement and will end before Opening Convocation. Most Maymesters are
about three weeks long, though they may take place over as few as two weeks or as
many as six weeks. Most Maymesters are international, though several are domestic.
In consultation with the Director of the Buckman Center for International Education, faculty
members propose, design, and lead their own Maymesters. It's normal for program
development to take about 11 months.
Course Content: Generally, each Maymester's coursework takes place within the
academic discipline of the faculty leader. For course titles, descriptions, credits, and
Foundations credit, see the Buckman Center's website  for current Maymester programs.  
Rhodes typically offers 10-12 Maymesters each summer, based on faculty interest and
availability. Some programs operate every year; others alternate years or are only offered
every several years. New programs are always being developed, thanks to the Buckman
International Curricular Development Grants, which provide funds for faculty to
travel/research for the development of new Maymesters.
The following is a list of Maymesters offered in the last several years, with an * next to
ones operating Summer 2023:
• Ancient Greek Mythology
• Art and Art History: Archaeological Fieldwork in Greece
• Arts and Language Across Spain*
• Buddhism in Thai Society*
• Caesarea City and Port Exploration Project*
• Classical Music Appreciation in Vienna
• Environmental Archaeology at Ames* (domestic)Programs of Study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53
201 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 PM
• Environmental Field Study in Namibia*
• French Immersion Maymester in Togo*
• Health and Mental Health Disparities in an International Context, The Case of
Thailand
• Healthy Cities: The Political Economy of Urban Policymaking
• Holocaust Travel Seminar
• Intensive Language - German
• Intensive Language - Russian
• International Business Cases and Religion in the Low Country*
• Rhodes in China: Chinese and Political Science
• Rhodes in Rennes: French National and Regional Identity and Culture
• Search Abroad in Latin America
• South Africa Maymester: Business and Psychology*
• Spanish Immersion in Ecuador*
• Summer School in London*
• Summer Study in Europe
• The Urban World of the First Christians
Printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/rhodes-study-abroad-and-away-
programs/summer-programs-maymesters
Urban Studies
The Urban Studies Program houses two majors — Urban Studies and Health Equity —
that enable students to explore and understand urban experiences in their richness and
complexity and to appreciate how urban social contexts shape human health. The
program provides an interdisciplinary learning experience grounded in the liberal arts and
connected to concerns of the region and the world. Through integrative teaching and
research, students develop and apply the skills needed to analyze the dynamic processes
and structures of urban life and health as well as the ways that cities contribute to global
change. Students engage fully with Memphis and the diversity of the mid-south region, as
they learn to situate them within a global context. The major combines coursework with
urban ﬁeld experiences, including internships, fellowships, and research with community
partners.
Printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/urban-studies
International Study
Many Urban Studies students spend a semester abroad. We see comparativePrograms of Study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53
202 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 PM
perspectives as critical to examining cities and urban life. Speak with a faculty advisor to
determine a program that ﬁts your interests. Also, speak with the program chair before
beginning the program to discuss courses and transfer credits. There are some programs
that are designed speciﬁcally for Urban Studies students such as IHP “Cities in the 21st
Century” and DIS “Urban Studies in Europe.” Rhodes also offers Maymester courses
appropriate for Urban Studies students, including the course in London and Glasgow,
"Healthy Cities."
Printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/urban-studies/international-study
Requirements for a Major in Health Equity
Requirements for a Major in Health Equity
A total of forty four (44) credits as follows:
1. Urban Studies 201: Introduction to Urban Studies
2. A Policy course chosen from the following:
1. Politics and Law 206: Urban Politics and Policy
2. Politics and Law 320: Health Care Policy
3. Health Equity 440: Politics of Health and Health Care Policy
3. Two Health Equity courses chosen from the following
1. Religious Studies 231: Faith, Health, and Justice
2. Health Equity 210: Introduction to Health Equity and Health Disparities or Health
Equity 410: Health Equity and Health Disparities
3. Africana Studies 350: Race Thinking and Health Disparities
4. Anthropology/Sociology 347: Medical Sociology
5. Anthropology/Sociology 265: Anthropology of Health
6. Health Equity 420: Developing Cultural Humility
7. Health Equity 435: Global Health, Local Practice
8. Urban Studies 235: Principles of Public Health
4. A methods course chosen from the followingPrograms of Study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53
203 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 PM
1. Health Equity 445, Research Methods in Health Disparities
2. INTD 225, Geographic Information Systems
3. Social Statistics (URBN 220)
4. Statistical Methods (PSYC 211)
5. Statistical Analysis for Economics and Business (ECON 290)
6. Applied Statistics for the Liberal Arts (MATH 111)
5. A course designated as having a community engagement component. This course
may not be fulﬁlled by the Introduction to Urban Studies (URBN 201) course. This
course may also count as an elective or requirement for the major.
6. Urban Studies 385: Senior Research Design
7. Urban Studies 485: Senior Seminar
8. An Additional 16 credit hours selected from a list of approved electives or other
courses selected in consultation with a faculty advisor and approved by the program
chair. 
**Two electives (8 credits) must be taken at the 300 or 400 level. Courses taken to
complete required courses for the major (items 1-8  above) may not be used to fulﬁll this
requirement.  
**No more than two 100-level courses may be used as major requirements or electives.
The Health Equity courses listed below are regularly offered. Other electives may be
added during the academic year, including topics courses. During registration check
Banner Web or the Urban Studies Program ofﬁce for a complete list of  approved electives.
In consultation with a faculty advisor, students may select other courses as electives
provided the courses (1) are relevant to the social construction of health  and (2) are
approved by the Chair of Urban Studies.
• Race Thinking and Health Disparities (Africana Studies 350)
• Anthropology of Health (Anthropology/Sociology 265)
• Race and Ethnicity in American Society (Anthropology/Sociology 331)
• Medical Sociology (Anthropology/Sociology 347)
• Environmental Science (Biology 120)
• Embryology (Biology 209)
• Genetics (Biology 304 with lab OR Biology 303 without lab)Programs of Study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53
204 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 PM
• Molecular Biology (Biology 325)
• Virology/Immunology (Biology 330)
• Foundations of Education (Education 201)
• Race, Class, Gender, and Sexuality in Education (Education 320)
• Introduction to Health Equity and Health Disparities (Health Equity 210)
• Health Equity and Disparities (Health Equity 410)
• Intercultural Communication for Healthcare (HLEQ 415)
• Developing Cultural Humility (Health Equity 420)
• Narrative Medicine and Inequality (Health Equity 430)
• Politics of Health and Health Care Policy (Health Equity 440)
• Global Health and Local Practice (Health Equity 435)
• Research Methods in Health Disparities (Health Equity 445)
• African American History (History 242)
• The Civil Rights Movement (History 243)
• History of Poverty in the United States (History 249)
• Urban History (History 205)
• Geographic Information Systems (Interdepartmental 225)
• Music and Healing (Music 105)
• Medical Ethics (Philosophy 303)
• Health Care Policy (Politics and Law  320)
• Psychology of Health (Psychology 220)
• Community Psychology (Psychology 330)
• Infant and Child Development (Psychology 229)
Community and Program Evaluation (Psychology 350)
• Statistical Methods (Psychology 211)
• Faith, Health, and Justice (Religious Studies 231)
• Pain, Suffering, and Death (Religious Studies 233)
• Health Equity Internship (Religious Studies 460)
• Social Statistics (Urban Studies  220)
• Intercultural Knowledge and Competence (Urban Studies 250)
• Music and Community in Memphis (Urban Studies 262 or 382)
• Topics in Urban Studies (Urban Studies 265 or 365)
• Nonproﬁts in the City (Urban Studies 340)
• Internship (Urban Studies 460)
Printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/urban-studies/requirements-
major-health-equity
Requirements for a Major in Urban StudiesPrograms of Study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53
205 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 PM
Requirements for a Major in Urban Studies
A total of forty-four (44) credits as follows:
1. Urban Studies 201: Introduction to Urban Studies
2. Politics and Law 206: Urban Politics and Policy
3. One 4 credit course that addresses Race and Ethnicity in the United States
1. Malcolm/Martin/Baldwin/America (Africana Studies 220)
2. Africana Theory (Africana Studies 305)
3. Race Thinking and Health Disparities (Africana Studies 350)
4. Indigenous People of North America (Anthropology/Sociology 221)
5. Race and Ethnicity in American Society (Anthropology/Sociology 331)
6. Survey in African American Literature (English 224)
7. Study in African American Literature (English 264)
8. African American History (History 242)
9. The Civil Rights Movement (History 243)
10. African American Music (Music 118)
11. Philosophy of Race and Racism (Philosophy 220)
12. Faith, Health, and Justice (Religious Studies 231)
13. Black Theology (Religious Studies topics course)
14. Intercultural Knowledge and Competence (Urban Studies 250) 
(other courses may fulﬁll this requirement, and will require permission of the
Chair of Urban Studies)
4. One methods course from the following list by the end of the junior year:
1. GIS (INTD 225)
2. Social Statistics (URBN 220)
3. Statistical Methods (PSYC 211)Programs of Study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53
206 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 PM
4. Statistical Analysis for Economics and Business (ECON 290)
5. Applied Statistics for the Liberal Arts (MATH 111)
5. One 4 credit course that has a community-engagement component from the
following list:
1. Justice in the City: Nonproﬁts, Community and Social Change (URBN 340)
2. Community Psychology (PSYC 330)
3. Community Development & Action (URBN 350)
4. (other courses may fulﬁll this requirement, and will require permission of the
Chair of Urban Studies)
6. Urban Studies 385: Senior Research Design
7. Urban Studies 485: Senior Capstone Seminar
8. An additional 16 credit hours selected from a list of approved electives or other
courses selected in consultation with a faculty advisor and approved by the program
chair. These courses should support student interests and future goals. 
* One elective must have a global or comparative perspective.
* Only one elective may be taken at the 100 level.
*Two electives (8 credits) must be taken at the 300 or 400 level. Courses taken to
complete required courses for the major (items 1-7 above) may not be used to fulﬁll this
requirement.  
Urban Studies Electives that are regularly offered are listed below. Urban Studies elective
courses may be added during the school year, including topics courses as appropriate.
During registration, check Banner Web or the Urban Studies Program ofﬁce for a complete
list of Urban Studies electives. In consultation with a faculty advisor, students may select
other courses as electives provided the courses (1) are relevant to urban institutions or
issues and (2) are approved by the Chair of Urban Studies. 
Urban Studies Electives:
• Africana Theory (Africana Studies 305)
• Race Thinking and Health Disparities (Africana Studies 350)
• Art and Life in Pompeii (Art History 353)
• Race and Ethnicity in American Society (Anthropology/Sociology 331)Programs of Study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53
207 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 PM
• Sociology of Education (Anthropology/Sociology 341)
• Environmental Science (Biology 120)
• Management of Organizations (Business 361)
• Foundations of Education (Education 201)
• Urban Education (Education 220)
• Race, Class, Gender, and Sexuality in Education (Education 320)
• Environment and Society (Environmental Studies and Sciences 150)
• African American History (History 242)
• The Civil Rights Movement (History 243)
• Politics of Migration (International Studies 340)
• Public Policy Analysis (Politics and Law  Science 305)
• Community Psychology (Psychology 250)
• Urban Geography (Urban Studies 230)
• Intercultural Knowledge and Competence (Urban Studies 250)
• Music and Community in Memphis (Urban Studies 262)
• Topics in Urban Studies (Urban Studies 265)
• Black Communities and Law Enforcement (URBN 270)
• Globalization and Cities (Urban Studies 320)
• Asian Urbanization through Cinema (Urban Studies 330)
• Justice and the City: Nonproﬁts, Community and Social Change (Urban Studies 340)
• Urban Political Economy (Urban Studies 345)
• Community Development & Action (Urban Studies 350)
• Sentencing, Corrections, and American Law (URBN 261)
• Advanced Seminar in Urban Studies (Urban 365)
• Music and Community in Memphis (Urban Studies 382)
• Internship (Urban Studies 460)
Printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/urban-studies/requirements-
major-urban-studies
Requirements for a Minor in Health Equity
A total of 24 credits as follows:
1. Introduction to Urban Studies (URBN 201)
2. Two courses from the list under requirement #3 for the Health Equity MajorPrograms of Study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53
208 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 PM
3. Three electives chosen from the list of electives in the Health Equity Major. At least
one course has to be designated as community engaged. At least one course must
be at 300 or 400 level
Printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/urban-studies/requirements-
minor-health-equity
Requirements for a Minor in Urban Studies
A total of 24 credits as follows:
1. Introduction to Urban Studies (Urban Studies 201)
2. One 4 credit course that has a community-engagement component from the
following list:
1. Justice in the City: Nonproﬁts, Community and Social Change (URBN 340)
2. Community Psychology (PSYC 330)
3. Community Development & Action (URBN 350)
4. (other courses may fulﬁll this requirement, and will require permission of the
Chair of Urban Studies)
3. Four courses selected from the Urban Studies Curriculum (including Urban Studies
major requirements and electives.) Courses in the Urban Studies Major and Urban
Studies Electives that are regularly offered are listed under the major. Urban Studies
elective courses may be added during the school year, including topics courses as
appropriate. During registration, check Banner Web or the Urban Studies Program
ofﬁce for a complete list of Urban Studies electives. Other courses may be used to
fulﬁll the minor requirement provided the courses: 1) contain an urban institutional or
urban issues focus, and 2) are approved for minor credit by the Chair of Urban
Studies.
** Four of the courses in the minor must come from ﬁelds outside of one’s major. 
** One course in the minor must be taken at the 300 or 400 level.
Printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/urban-studies/requirements-
minor-urban-studies
Urban Studies: Core Faculty and Program AdvisoryPrograms of Study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53
209 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 PM
Committee
Core Faculty
• Stephanie Cage , Lynn and Henry Turley Memphis Center
• Austin Harrison, Urban Studies Program
• Peter Hossler , Urban Studies Program
• Kendra Hotz , Urban Studies Program
• Charles Hughes , Urban Studies Program
• Andrea Jacobo, Urban Studies Program
• Duane T. Loynes Sr. , Urban Studies Program, Africana Studies Program
• Elizabeth Thomas,  Department of Psychology
• Shaolu Yu , Urban Studies Program
Program Advisory Committee
• John Bass, Department of Music
• Sarah Boyle , Department of Biology
Zachary Casey , Educational Studies Program
• Evelyn Perry , Department of Anthropology and Sociology
• Elizabeth Pettinaroli, Modern Languages, Latin American Studies
• Amy Risley, International Studies
Printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/urban-studies/urban-studies-
core-faculty-and-program-advisory-committeePrograms of Study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53
210 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 PM
Home »Matters of Record
Published on Rhodes College: Rhodes Catalogue (https://catalog.rhodes.edu/)
Matters of Record
Printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/matters-record
Administration
Ofﬁce of the President
Jennifer M. Collins. President. B.A., Yale University; J.D., Harvard Law School.   
Anne Gaudet Beard. Chief of Staff. B.A., Rhodes College; M.I.B., American Graduate
School of International Management.  
Kristen H. Hunt. Executive Coordinator.  B.S., University of Tennessee, Knoxville; CAPM.   
Angelia S. Brittain. President’s Ofﬁce Coordinator. B.A., College of William and Mary;
M.B.A., Vanderbilt University.
Athletics, Physical Education and Recreation
Jim Duncan. Director of Athletics. B.S.B.A., University of Kansas.   
Matthew V. Dean. Associate Athletic Director for Facilities and Operations. B.S. and M.S.,
Drake University.   
Kimberly House. Associate Athletic Director for Compliance and Student-Athlete Success.
B.A., University of Memphis.   
Jeffrey M. Cleanthes. Assistant Athletic Director and Head Baseball Coach. B.A., Drew
University; M.B.A., Rutgers University.   
Robert L. Shankman. Assistant Athletic Director and Head Track & Cross Country Coach.
B.A., Rhodes College; M.Ed., University of Memphis.   
Jennifer L. Tinnell. Assistant Athletic Director and Head Women’s Tennis Coach/Senior
Woman Administrator. B.A., M.B.A., Berry College.   
Rebecca Arbino. Head Softball Coach. B.A., San Diego State University; M.S., Colorado
State University.   
Blake Bennett. Assistant Baseball Coach. B.A., University of Memphis.   
Jennifer K. Bone. Athletic Administrative Coordinator. B.A., Anderson University; M.S.,
University of Memphis.   
Antonio Brown. Assistant Football Coach. B.F.A., Berry College.   Matters of Record https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/311
1 of 85 7/25/23, 12:56 PM
Tom Campbell. Head Men's Golf Coach. B.S., Transylvania University.   
Tyler H. Cempre. Head Men's Tennis Coach and Assistant Sports Information Director.
B.A., Denison University.   
Andrew Chau. Assistant Football Coach. B.S., United States Merchant Marine Academy;
M.B.A., University of Florida.   
John Combs. Assistant Men's Lacrosse Coach. B.A., State University of New York at
Potsdam; M.A., Northwestern University.   
Christopher N. DiLella. Assistant Football Coach. B.A., King’s College; M.A., Castleton
State College.  
Matthew Dsida. Assistant Cross Country and Track & Field Coach. B.A., Rhodes College;
M.A., Belmont University.   
Rich Duncan. Football Coach. B.F.A., Bethany College; M.A., Loras College.   
Averill Erdody. Head Field Hockey Coach. B.A., University of Massachusetts Lowell;
M.A.E., Southeastern University  
Andrew B. Gibson. Director of Athletic Training. B.S., University of Memphis; M.S., Murray
State University; ATC, LAT, CSCS, PES, CES.  
Steven Goodson. Head Men's Basketball Coach. B.S., University of Kentucky.  
Peter Green. Head Volleyball Coach. B.F.A., Small Business Management Cedarville
University.   
Marcus A. Harris. Assistant Track and Field Coach. B.A., Texas Southern University.   
Matt Kalb. Assistant Football Coach. B.F.A., University of Kentucky; M.A., Valparaiso
University.   
Meghan S. Keelan. Head Women’s Lacrosse Coach and Assistant Coordinator of Club
Sports. B.A., University of Maryland, Baltimore County; M.B.A., Shepherd University.   
Thomas Kirk. Assistant Men's Soccer Coach. B.S., M.S., Castleton University.   
Matthew C. Lamb. Head Men's Soccer Coach. B.A., University of Mary Washington.   
Ben Mathias. Assistant Football Coach. B.S., University of Wisconsin - La Crosse; M.B.A.,
Carroll University.   
Patrick T. McGrail. Assistant Men’s Basketball Coach. B.A., Rhodes College.   
Jackson Mumford. Assistant Men's Lacrosse Coach. B.A., Gettysburg College; M.S.,
McDaniel College.   
Stacie Murray-Owers. Head Women’s Soccer Coach. B.A., University of Massachusetts,
Amherst; M.B.A., M.Ed., Christian Brothers university.   
Carlos Ocasio. Staff Athletic Trainer. B.S., State University of New York College at
Cortland.   
Rodney Rogan. Head Women’s Basketball Coach. B.B.A., Millsaps College.   
Robert D. Schrier. Associate Head Baseball Coach and Coordinator of Outdoor Facilities.
B.A., Rhodes College.  
Michael Sheridan. Associate Head Athletic Trainer. B.S., Colby-Sawyer College.   
Kiersten Still. Assistant Volleyball Coach. c Trainer. B.S., Columbia College; M.S., M.Ed.,
University of Tampa.   
Abbie Verbeke. Staff Athletic Trainer. B.S., M.S., West Chester University ofMatters of Record https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/311
2 of 85 7/25/23, 12:56 PM
Pennsylvania.  
Judi Vigneulle. Assistant Women's Basketball Coach. B.S., University of Mobile; M.A.,
University of West Alabama.   
Steve Webb. Head Swimming and Diving Coach and Aquatics Coordinator. B.S., Florida
State University.   
J. David Zazzaro. Head Men’s Lacrosse Coach and Fitness Room Supervisor. B.A., Drew
University; M.B.A., Regis University.   
Vacant. Director of Athletic Media Relations.   
Vacant. Staff Athletic Trainer.  
Vacant. Head Women's Golf Coach.  
Vacant. Assistant Field Hockey Coach.  
Vacant. Assistant Swimming Coach.   
Vacant. Assistant Tennis Coach.  
Vacant. Assistant Women's Lacrosse Coach.   
Vacant. Assistant Women's Soccer Coach.
Ofﬁce of Academic Affairs
Katherine C. Bassard.  Provost and Vice President for Academic Affairs. B.A., Wake
Forrest; M.A., Virginia Commonwealth University; Ph.D., Rutgers University.   
Rashna W. Richards. Associate Provost. B.A. Narsee Monjee College; M.A. University of
Mumbai; M.A. West Virginia University; Ph.D. University of Florida.   
Natalie K. Person. Dean for Curricular Development. B.A., University of Mississippi; M.S.,
Memphis State University; Ph.D., University of Memphis.   
Vacant. Dean for Faculty Recruitment, Development and Diversity.   
Vacant. Dean for Faculty Reviews and Assessment.  
Vacant. Director of Assessment.  
Jessica C. Kelso. Director of Health Professions Advising. B.S., M.A., Bowling Green
State University.   
Melissa Hardy. Assistant Director of Health Professions Advising. B.A., Florida
International University; M.S., Kansas State University; M.A., University of Memphis.   
Lauren Pringle. Assistant Director of Health Professions Advising. B.A., Rowan University;
M.S., University of Massachusetts.   
Joseph Kelly. Teacher Licensure Coordinator. Ph.D. Southern Baptist Theological
Seminary.  
Anna R. Eldridge. Director of Pre-Legal Advising and Mock Trial. B.A., Rhodes College;
J.D., Duke University School of Law.  
Charles Hughes. Director of the Turley Memphis Center. Ph.D., University of Wisconsin-
Madison.  
Stephanie N. Cage. Associate Director of the Turley Memphis Center. A.A.S., Southwest
Tennessee Community College; B.B.A., M.A., University of Memphis.   Matters of Record https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/311
3 of 85 7/25/23, 12:56 PM
Iris A. Mercado. Urban Studies and the Turley Memphis Center Program Coordinator.
B.A., Rhodes College.  
Bentley Burnham. Director of CubeSat Project. B.A., Lehigh University; M.A., Ph.D., Duke
University.   
April L. Allen. Academic Affairs Coordinator. B.B.A., Lambuth University; M.B.A.,
University of Memphis.   
Steven Drieberg. Administrative Assistant II. A.A., Morningside Institute of Arts.
Mike Curb Institute for Music
John B. Bass. Director of the Mike Curb Institute for Music and Special Initiatives. B.M.,
University of Southern Mississippi; M.M., Ph.D., University of Memphis.
Buckman Center for International Education
Erin R. Hillis. Director of International Programs. B.A., M.A., Ph.D., University of
Memphis.  
Elin Ovrebo. Associate Director of International Programs. B.A., M.A., Ph.D., University of
Memphis.  
Rachel Gasser. International Education Advisor. B.S., Tennessee Technological
University.   
Aliza Moran. International Education Advisor. B.F.A., University of Memphis; M.A., New
York University.
Registrar
Amanda Law Maxson. Registrar. B.A., Rhodes College; M.B.A., Berry College.   
Dawn Carpenter. Associate Registrar. B.A., University of Florida; M.B.A., Christian
Brothers University.   
April Vincent. Assistant Registrar. B.A., Southeast Missouri State University; M.A., Bethel
University.   
April Perdomo. Registrar Data Specialist. B.A., University of Mississippi; M.A., University
of Memphis.
Academic Staff
Tangela Allgood. Departmental Assistant, Biology, Environmental Studies and Sciences,
and Neuroscience.  A.A., Southwest Tennessee Community College.  
Christy Arnold. Departmental Assistant, Religious Studies, Art and Art History, and
Philosophy.  
Bonnie Burgette. Departmental Assistant, History. B.A., Christian Brothers University.   
Kate Collier. Departmental Assistant, Computer Science, Mathematics and Statistics,
Physics, and Chemistry. M.Ed., Christian Brothers University; M.P.A., University ofMatters of Record https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/311
4 of 85 7/25/23, 12:56 PM
Memphis.  
Jordy Gentry. Laboratory Supervisor and Biological Safety Ofﬁcer, Biology. B.A. University
of Memphis.  
Hannah Guess. Departmental Assistant, Economics, Business, Politics and Law, and
Accounting Graduate Program. B.A., M.A., University of Memphis.  
Anjeanette T. Johnson-Tiamiyu. Departmental Assistant, Anthropology, Sociology, and
Psychology.   
Amber Lewis. Departmental Assistant, Educational Studies, Health Equity, and Urban
Studies. B.A. University of Alabama.  
Ethan McVay. Studio Arts Technician - Part Time, Art and Art History.  
Rosanna P. Meindl. Part-time Visual Resources Curator, Art and Art History. B.A., Lewis
and Clark College; M.A., University of Oregon.   
Karen L. Mosley. Instrument Technician and Chemical Safety Ofﬁcer, Chemistry. B.S.,
M.S., University of Memphis.   
Victor O. Obadina.  Physics Instructional Support Specialist, Physics. B.A., Fisk University;
M.S., Alabama A&M University.  
Erika Pope. Musical Arts Coordinator, Music. B.A., Henderson State University.   
Justin A. Porter. Laboratory Manager, Biology. B.S., M.S., University of Georgia.   
Maya Robertson. Departmental Assistant, International Studies and SEARCH. B.S.,
Northwestern State University; M.S., Ed.D. Grambling State University.   
Christy M. Waldkirch. Departmental Assistant, Modern Languages and Literatures and
Ancient Mediterranean Studies.   
Stewart White. Part Time Technical Associate. B.S., California State University, Hayward;
M.B.E., Christian Brothers University.   
Lorie W. Yearwood. Departmental Assistant, English. A.A.S., State Technical Institute at
Memphis.
Information Services, Paul Barret Jr. Library
Harvey Smith. Chief Information Ofﬁcer.  B.S., University of Memphis; M.B.A., Union
University.   
Darlene D. Brooks. Director of the Barret Library. B.A., M.L.I.S., University of Tennessee,
Knoxville.  
Stacy S. Pennington. Director of Infrastructure and Enterprise Applications. B.A., Rhodes
College.   
Richard T. Trenthem, Jr. Director of Academic Technologies. B.A., Rhodes College;
M.L.I.S., University of Texas at Austin.   
Stephen Barber. Instructional Systems Specialist. Michael R. Akin. Desktop Support
Specialist. B.A., Rhodes College.   
Greg Bowman. Systems Analyst. B.S., Arkansas State University.  
Brian Braskich. Systems Programmer Analyst. B.A., University of Iowa; M.A., United
Theological Seminary of the Twin Cities.   Matters of Record https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/311
5 of 85 7/25/23, 12:56 PM
Steve Brummel, Assistant Director of User Engagement and Experience. B.A., Aurora
University; B.A., Columbia College Chicago; M.S., Dominican University; M.Ed., University
of St. Francis.   
Cody Dillon. Network and Computer Engineer. A.A.S., Southwest Tennessee Community
College.   
Rachel Feinman. Head of Cataloging and Collection Development Librarian. B.S., M.L.S.,
Florida State University.   
Amanda Ford. Head of Circulation. B.A., Mississippi State University.   
Caley A. Foreman. Senior Desktop Specialist. B.A., Mississippi State University.   
Caitlin E. Gewin. Instructional Technologist. B.A., Rhodes College.   
Marci Hendrix. Administrative Assistant II. B.A., Rhodes College.   
Roland D. Handy. Desktop Support Specialist. A.A.S., Mid-South Community College.   
S. Lance Kimbrell. Manager of Instructional Technology. A.A.S., Mississippi Delta
Community College.   
Felicia L. Knox. Information Services Librarian. B.S., University of Tennessee,
Chattanooga; M.A.Ed., Union University.   
Emma Kruse. Circulation Supervisor. B.A., Rhodes College.   
Mark E. Miller. System Administrator. B.B.A., University of Memphis.   
Kenan C. Padgett. Interlibrary Loan and Information Services Librarian. B.A., Elon
College; M.L.S., University of North Carolina at Greensboro.   
Gregory J. Paraham. Electronic Resources Librarian. B.A., University of Memphis; M.L.S.,
Louisiana State University.   
Robert Scrivener. Desktop Support Specialist. A.A., Northwest Community College.   
William M. Short. Associate Director of Library Services. Curator for the Jessie L. Clough
Art Memorial for Teaching. B.A., Rhodes College; M.L.S., George Peabody College of
Vanderbilt University.   
Edward A. Trouy. Network and Computer Engineer. A.E.T., State Technical Institute,
Memphis.  
Elisha J. Vego. Database Analyst. B.S., University of Memphis.   
Douglas G. Walker. System Administrator. A.A.S., State Technical Institute, Memphis.   
RaShauna Wright. Information Services Librarian. B.A., University of North Carolina
-Chapel Hill; M.L.I.S., North Carolina Central University; Ph.D., University of Illinois at
Urbana-Champaign.
Ofﬁce of Communications
Linda Bonnin. Vice President for Marketing and Communications. B.A., Harding
University.   
Justin W. McGregor. Executive Director of Marketing and Communications. B.S., Middle
Tennessee State University.   
Vacant. Director of Strategic Communications.   Matters of Record https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/311
6 of 85 7/25/23, 12:56 PM
Troy Wiggins. Director of Marketing. B.A., M.P.A., University of Memphis.   
Jana D. Files. Assistant Director of Digital Communications. B.A., Rhodes College.   
Charles W. Kenny. Assistant Director of Communications. B.F.A., University of Tennessee
at Knoxville.  
Larry D. Ahokas. Graphic Designer. B.M.E., University of Nebraska.   
Dionne R. Chalmers. Media Relations Manager. B.A. and M.A., University of Memphis.   
Matthew R. Cowgur. Senior Full Stack Digital Developer. B.S., Taylor University.   
Matthew Harris. Interactive Communications Strategist. B.A., Rhodes College.   
Ethan I. van Drimmelen. Videographer/Photographer. B.A., Sarah Lawrence College;
M.B.A., Christian Brothers University.
Ofﬁce of Student Life
Nicole Johnson.  Vice President for Student Life. B.A., University of Iowa; M.S., Arkansas
Tech University.   
Alicia C. Golston.  Dean of Students. B.A., M.A., University of Memphis; Ed.D., Western
Kentucky University.  
Melissa Campbell. Dean of Student Success. B.S., Middle Tennessee State University;
M.S., Texas A&M University.   
Jazmin Rodriguez. Dean of Equity and Engagement. B.S., University of Central Florida.   
Jennifer Soler-Rodriguez. Director of Academic and Learning Resources. B.S., University
of the Sacred Heart.   
Christopher Williams. Director of Community Engagement. B.S., Bethel University; M.A.,
McCormick Theological Seminary.   
Richard Adams. Director of Community Standards. B.A., Albany State University; M.Ed.,
Georgia Southern University.   
Anne Strickland. Director of Student Engagement. B.S., M.Ed., Auburn University.  
Brittney Jackson. Director of First Year Experience and Transitions. B.S., University of
Tennessee; M.S., University of Memphis.   
Sarah Woods. Assistant Director of Academic and Learning Resources. B.A., M.A.,
University of Mississippi.   
Vacant. Assistant Director of Student Engagement.   
Vacant. Bonner Center Coordinator.  
Jennifer Leili. Coordinator - Student Life. B.S., M.S., University of Central Florida; Ph.D.,
University of South Florida.   
Danielle Donze. Manager of Student Life Operations and Initiatives. B.A., M.A., Fontbonne
University.   
Alexa O'Hara. Student Success Care Manager. B.S., University of Tennessee; M.S.W.,
University of Memphis.   
Dominique Brooks. Administrative Assistant II. B.A., Lane College.Matters of Record https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/311
7 of 85 7/25/23, 12:56 PM
Career Services
Sandra George Tracy. Director of Career Services. B.A., Purdue University; M.A., Bowling
Green State University.   
Amy L. Moen. Associate Director of Career Services. B.S., Florida State University; M.A.,
Brigham Young University.   
Rachelle Brown. Assistant Director of Career Development. B.S., Tennessee State
University; M.Ed., University of West Georgia.   
Jessica Flanigan. Assistant Director of Internships and Experiential Education. B.S., M.S.,
Kansas State University.
Chaplain
Beatrix A. Weil. Chaplain. B.A., University of Notre Dame; M.Div., Princeton Theological
Seminary.
Counseling and Student Development Center
Pamela M. Detrie. Director of Student Counseling. B.S., University of North Carolina at
Chapel Hill; M.Ed., Clemson University; Ph.D., University of Memphis.   
Elizabeth Harcourt. Associate Director of Student Counseling. B.A., Rhodes College;
M.S., University of Tennessee; L.C.S.W.   
Molly Rafaely. Assistant Director of Student Counseling. B.S., M.S., Mississippi State
University; L.P.C.   
Elise Tanner. Assistant Director of Student Counseling. B.S., University of Memphis; M.S.,
University of Tennessee; L.C.S.W.  
DLessia Wedley. Assistant Director of Student Counseling. B.S., University of Tennessee;
M.A., Syracuse University; M.Ed., Widener University; Ph.D., Loma Linda University.   
Minnie Munn. Administrative Assistant I. A.A., Valley State University.
Student Accessibility Services
Melissa B. Butler. Director of Student Accessibility Services. B.S., University of
Washington; M.S., University of Memphis.
Health Services
Vacant. Director of Student Health and Wellness.        
Monica Brown. Staff Nurse - RN. A.S.N., Concorde Career College; L.P.N., Methodist
School of Practical Nursing.   
Dwayne Westbrook. Wellness Center Practice Manager. B.S., University of Tennessee -
Martin; M.B.A., University of Tennessee - Chattanooga.Matters of Record https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/311
8 of 85 7/25/23, 12:56 PM
Residence Life
Aretha R. Milligan. Director of Residence Life. B.S., Lane College; B.A., Maryville
University; M.A., Indiana University of Pennsylvania.   
Vacant. Associate Director of Residence Life and Education.  
Jonathan Vizenor. Assistant Director of Residence Life. B.S., California State University-
Fresno.   
Emily Duet. Residence Life Coordinator. B.A., Centenary College of Louisiana; M.A.,
Northwestern State University.   
Morgan Glenn. Residence Life Coordinator. B.A., University of South Caroline Beaufort;
M.Div., Liberty University.
Rhodes Express
Stephanie L. Chockley. Rhodes Express and Student Services Manager. B.A., Rhodes
College.   
Tamiko Alexander. Service Specialist. B.A., Alcorn State University; M.A., Webster
University.   
Lucy O'Sullivan. Service Specialist. B.F.A., Rollins College.
Ofﬁce of Strategic Initiatives
Sherry L. Turner. Vice President for Strategic Initiatives. B.A., Rhodes College; M.T.S.,
Emory University; M.S., North Carolina State University; Ph.D., University of Illinois,
Urbana-Champaign.   
Inez  Warner. Title IX Coordinator. B.S., University of Tennessee at Martin; J.D., Liberty
University School of Law.  
Dr. Fitzpatrick Anyanwu. Chief Institutional Research and Data Strategist. B.S., M.S.,
Ed.D., Oklahoma State University.   
Vacant. Senior Institutional Research and Data Analyst.   
Quan Dinh. Data Analyst. B.S., Rhodes College.   
Valarie Neville.  Administrative Assistant II.
Ofﬁce of Development
Jennifer Goodloe Wade. Vice President for Development. B.S., University of Tennessee,
Knoxville; M.Ed., Vanderbilt University.   
Amanda G. Tamburrino. Senior Director of Development. B.A., Rhodes College.   
Kerry A. Connors. Senior Director of Development Initiatives and Advancement Systems.Matters of Record https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/311
9 of 85 7/25/23, 12:56 PM
B.A., Marist College.   
Anna McCrarey. Director of Development Communications and Digital Content. B.B.A.,
Oklahoma State University.   
Kerri G. Campbell. Director of Community Relations. B.A., Rhodes College; J.D., Michigan
State University.   
Nicole Tugg. Director of Athletic Giving and Senior Development Ofﬁcer. B.A., Rhodes
College; M.B.A., University of Colorado - Colorado Springs.   
J. Knight Champion. Senior Development Ofﬁcer. B.A., Rhodes College; J.D., University
of Alabama.  
Michael A. Palazzolo. Senior Development Ofﬁcer. B.A., Rhodes College.   
Lydia Spencer. Director of Grants and Foundations. B.A., Rhodes College.   
Christian Assandria. Administrative Assistant II.   
Elizabeth H. Love. Administrative Assistant I.
Advancement Services, Strategy and Stewardship
Nichole E. Soule’. Director of Advancement Services, Strategy and Stewardship and
Senior Planned Giving Ofﬁcer. B.A., Rhodes College; J.D., University of Memphis.   
Bill Hague. Associate Director of Advancement Services - Research. B.A., Rhodes
College.   
Heather Schreiner. Associate Director of Advancement Services - Stewardship. B.S.,
University of Memphis.   
Nancy Mencke. Stewardship Manager. B.A., M.P.A., Tulane University.   
Sarah Shambaugh. Advancement Services Coordinator. B.A., Rhodes College.  
Regina T. Dobbins. Development Assistant.
Alumni Relations
Tracy V. Patterson. Senior Director of Alumni Relations. B.A., Rhodes College; J.D.,
University of Memphis.   
Mimi Salazar. Assistant Director of Alumni Relations. B.A., Rhodes College.   
Adelaide Turpin. Alumni Services  Coordinator. B.A., Rhodes College.
Annual Giving
Ellen Celosky. Director of Annual Giving. B.A., University of Memphis.   
Tripp Riddle. Associate Director of Annual Giving. B.A., Rhodes College.   
Kelsey Wolfe. Assistant Director of Annual Giving. B.F.A., Rhodes College.   
Jacquelyn Carney. Administrative Assistant I.
College Events
Nicole Moore. Senior Director of College Events and Leadership Projects. B.B.A.,Matters of Record https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/311
10 of 85 7/25/23, 12:56 PM
Northeast Louisiana University.   
Shantih Smythe. Director of College Events. B.A., Union University.   
Kevin Collier. Manager of Campus Scheduling. B.A., Rhodes College.
Ofﬁce of Finance and Business Affairs
Kyle Webb. Vice President for Finance and Business Affairs. B.A., Rhodes College; C.P.A.
Finance
Kathleen B. Cates. Senior Associate Comptroller and Director of Accounting and Payroll.
B.B.A., University of Memphis; C.P.A.   
Vacant. Director of Accounting Information Systems.   
Vacant. Assistant Director of Accounting Information Systems.   
Reida Benson. Accounting and Finance Analyst. B.B.A., Mississippi State University.   
Stacey L. Duncan. Procurement and Business Manager. B.A., University of Memphis.   
Tina L. NeSmith. Payroll Manager.  
Jared Ison. Expense Accountant. B.A., University of Tennessee at Chattanooga; M.B.A.,
Maryville University.   
Vacant. Accounts Payable Manager.
Bursar
Richard F. Huddleston. Bursar. B.A., Rhodes College.
Campus Safety
Vacant. Associate Vice President for Campus Safety.   
Ike Sloas. Director of Campus Safety. A.A.S., B.S., Arkansas State University; M.S.,
Albany State University.  
Shundreka Jenkins. Assistant Director of Campus Safety. B.S., University of Memphis;
M.S., Capella University.   
Johnny Austin. Shift Commander.
Physical Plant
Brian E. Foshee. Director of Physical Plant and Chief Environmental Safety Compliance
Ofﬁcer. B.S., Christian Brothers University.   
Timothy H. Lucas. Associate Director of Physical Plant. B.A., University of Memphis.   
Jeffrey A. McClain. Superintendent of Maintenance.   
W. Gregory Jones. Assistant Superintendent of Maintenance.  Matters of Record https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/311
11 of 85 7/25/23, 12:56 PM
L. Mark Fleming . Superintendent of Housekeeping.  
Bobby E. Parson. Manager of Special Services.   
Debbie Newsom. Administrative Assistant I.
Human Resources
Leigh A. Powell. Interim Director of Human Resources. B.A., University of Memphis; PHR,
SHRM-CP.  
Martha A. McGeachy. Beneﬁts Services Manager. B.A., Rhodes College; J.D., University
of Memphis; SPHR.   
Vacant. Human Capital Management System  and Compensation Manager.  
Mariah Hotard. Manager of Talent Acquisition and Development. B.B.A., University of
Louisiana at Monroe; M.B.A., Southern University.  
Katherine A. Bass.   Employee Relations and Payroll Specialist. B.B.A., Delta State
University; M.B.A., Bethel University.   
Andrea McAdory. Human Resources Generalist. B.A., University of Memphis; SHRM-CP.
Ofﬁce of Enrollment
Gil Villanueva. Vice President for Enrollment. B.A., Pitzer College; M.S., Bucknell
University.
Admission
Megan A. Starling. Director of Admission. B.A., Rhodes College; M.S., Kennesaw State
University.   
Lauren B. Sefton. Director of International Admission. B.A., Rhodes College.   
Jose Garcia. Associate Director of Admission for Diversity and Access. B.S., Dana
College; M.S., Alcorn State University.   
Piyush Kumar. Senior Assistant Director of Admission. B.S., Rhodes College; M.S.,
Blueﬁeld College.  
McClintock Trammell. Senior Assistant Director of Admission. B.A., Washington and Lee
University.   
Sydney Jones. Assistant Director of Admission.  B.A., Rhodes College.  
Vacant. Senior Assistant Director of Admission.    
Vacant. Senior Assistant Director of Admission.    
Vacant. Assistant Director of Admission.    
Vacant. Assistant Director of Admission.    
Vacant. Assistant Director of Admission.    
Jo L. Gibbons. Campus Visit Data Coordinator.   
Jessica G. Jones. Campus Visit Service Coordinator. B.A., Mississippi State University.Matters of Record https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/311
12 of 85 7/25/23, 12:56 PM
Enrollment Services
Vacant. Director of Enrollment Services.   
Hunter Pruitt. Associate Director of Enrollment Services. B.S., Michigan State University.   
Natalie Shinault. Enrollment Systems and Communications Specialist. B.S., University of
Tennessee; M.B.A., Western Governors University.
Financial Aid
Michael D. Morgan. Director of Financial Aid. B.S., University of Kentucky.   
Arlisha Walton. Associate Director of Financial Aid. A.A., Northwest Mississippi
Community College; M.B., Remington College.   
Kandra L. Kolehmainen. Assistant Director of Financial Aid. B.A., University of Iowa.
The Bookstore (Managed by Follett Higher Education
Group)
Betty A. Mohler. Campus Store Lead. B.A., Christian Brothers University.   
Printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/matters-record/administration
Board of Trustees
Legal Title - Rhodes College
Board of Trustees
Deborah Legg Craddock , Chair.
Wilton D. "Chick" Hill , Vice Chair.
Jennifer M. Collins,  President, ex ofﬁcio.
John H. Bryan, III , Secretary.
Meri Armour.  M.S.N./M.B.A., Memphis, Tennessee. Retired. President, Le Bonheur
Children’s Hospital.
John H. Bryan, III . B.A. Nashville, Tennessee. President, Savannah Food Company.
Chris Cardwell.  B.A., J.D. Nashville, Tennessee. Attorney, Gullett Sanford Robinson and
Martin.
Darrell Cobbins.  B.A. Memphis, Tennessee. President and CEO, Universal Commercial
Real Estate.
Deborah Legg Craddock.  B.A. Memphis, Tennessee. Retired. President of Trading,Matters of Record https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/311
13 of 85 7/25/23, 12:56 PM
Southeastern Asset Management, Inc.
Meg Thomas Crosby.  B.A. Memphis, Tennessee. Principal, PeopleCap Advisors;
Operating Partner, SSM Partners.
James R. Downing . M.D. Memphis, Tennessee.  President and Chief Executive Ofﬁcer,
St. Jude Children’s Research Hospital.
Maria Farahani.  B.A. Austin, Texas. Co-owner of Fara Coffee and Co-founder of Fara
Foundation.
Daniel B. Hatzenbuehler.  B.A., J.D. Pittsboro, North Carolina. Retired. Chairman/CEO,
E. Ritter and Company
Sally Jones Heinz.  B.A., M.A.  Memphis, Tennessee. Executive Director of the
Metropolitan Inter-Faith Association.
Wilton D. “Chick” Hill. B.S. Memphis, Tennessee. Retired. Owner, Davidson Hotel
Company.
Susan Logan Huffman.  B.A., C.F.A. Piperton, Tennessee. Principal and Chief Investment
Ofﬁcer of Reliant Investment Management.
Elizabeth Hurley. B.A., M.A. Chicago, Illinois. Chief Development Ofﬁcer, Lyric Opera of
Chicago.
Marcus Kimbrough.  B.A., M.B.A. Charlotte, North Carolina. Vice President, Partnerships
& Advancement with Levine Museum of the New South.
Marie Louise “M.L.” I. Kinder.  B.B.A, M.B.A  Houston, Texas.
Steven R. Lainoff.  B.A., J.D., LL.M. McLean, Virginia. Retired. Principle-in-Charge,
KPMG LLP’s Complex Transactions Group.
William J. Michaelcheck.  B.A., MBA. New York, New York. Founder/co-CIO, Mariner
Investment Group, LLC.
Ryan D. Mire . B.S., M.D. Franklin, Tennessee. Physician, St. Thomas Hospital.
Johnny B. Moore, Jr.  B.A. Memphis, Tennessee. Regional President, Truist.
Elizabeth Roe Pearce.  B.A., M.B.A. Atlanta, Georgia. Chief Development Ofﬁcer, The
Lovett School.
Charles Robertson . B.S., Ph.D. Wilmington, Delaware. Retired. Chief Technical
Consultant and Founder, NanoDrop Technologies, LLC.  
Joshua D. Solomon  B.A. Atlanta, Georgia. Private Wealth Advisor, Merrill Lynch.
Trustees Emeriti
Bruce E. Campbell, Jr.  B.A., M.B.A. Memphis, Tennessee. Chairman of the Executive
Committee and Chairman Emeritus of the Board, National Commerce Bancorporation.
Kenneth F. Clark, Jr.  B.A., M.B.A., LL.B. Memphis, Tennessee. Counsel, Wyatt, Tarrant &
Combs.
J. Lester Crain, Jr.  B.A., LL.B. Memphis, Tennessee. Private Investor.Matters of Record https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/311
14 of 85 7/25/23, 12:56 PM
W. Neely Mallory, Jr.  B.A. Memphis, Tennessee. President and Chief Executive Ofﬁcer,
The Mallory Group Inc.; Managing Partner, Mallory Farms; Chairman of EWR.
Frank M. Mitchener, Jr.  B.S. Sumner, Mississippi. President, Mitchener Planting
Company.
Elizabeth LeMaster Simpson . B.A. Memphis, Tennessee.
New Council of Emeriti Trustees
James H. Barton.  A.B., J.D. Memphis, Tennessee. President and Treasurer, Barton
Group, Inc.
Robert H. Buckman.  B.S., M.B.A. Memphis, Tennessee. Chairman of the Executive
Committee of the Board of Directors at Bulab Holdings, Inc.
C. Williams Butler, III.  B.A. Memphis, Tennessee. Retired First Vice-President and
Manager of the Commodity International Division, National Bank of Commerce, Memphis.
Joe M. Duncan.  B.A., LL.B. Memphis, Tennessee. Partner, Burch, Porter and Johnson.  
William E. Evans . B.Sc., Pharm.D. Memphis, Tennessee. Endowed Chair in
Pharmacogenomics, St. Jude Children's Research Hospital.  
Phillip H. McNeill, Sr.  B.S., J.D. Memphis, Tennessee. Chairman of the Board, Equity
Inns, Inc. and president of McNeill Investment Co.
Vicki G. Palmer . B.A., M.B.A, Atlanta, Georgia. Retired Executive Vice-President, Coca-
Cola Enterprises, Inc. 
Randall R. Rhea. B.S., M.D. Roanoke, Virginia. Managing Partner, Carilion Clinic Family
Medicine
Spence L. Wilson . B.A., M.B.A. Memphis, Tennessee. President, Kemmons Wilson, Inc.
Printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/matters-record/board-trustees
College Sponsored Lecture Series
The academic life of Rhodes is enhanced considerably by annual sponsored programs
which make it possible for authorities in various ﬁelds of study to come to the College and
to participate in a variety of events with faculty and students.
The Lillian and Morrie Moss Endowment for the Visual Arts
Established in 1984, the Moss Endowment brings to the College each year guest lecturers
and visiting scholars in the ﬁelds of art, art history, and criticism for the beneﬁt of Rhodes
students and the Memphis community. This series has attracted national attention for its
roster of speakers selected from the world's leading experts in the ﬁelds of art and artMatters of Record https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/311
15 of 85 7/25/23, 12:56 PM
history.
The Peyton Nalle Rhodes Physics Lecture Series
Annually since 1984, the Peyton N. Rhodes Physics Lecture Series has brought to the
campus and community experts in the physical sciences and astronomy. Endowed by
friends of the former physics professor, president and namesake of the College, the
lecture series has acquainted students, faculty, and friends with new developments and
changing interpretations of the physical world.
James F. Rufﬁn Lecture in the Fine Arts
Established in 2001, the James F. Rufﬁn Lecture in the Fine Arts brings to campus
speakers and symposia focused on the visual arts. The lectures are funded by a 1999
bequest from the late James F. Rufﬁn, founder and operator of Rufﬁn's Import and
Interiors.
The Springﬁeld Music Lectures
The Springﬁeld Music Lectures were established in 1991 by a bequest from the late John
Murry Springﬁeld, '51. Each year an outstanding musicologist, researcher, music historian
or music theorist presents both formal and informal lectures that foster an increased
appreciation of music as an academic discipline. These lectures are open to the public as
well as to the Rhodes community.
The Mike Curb Concert Series
The Mike Curb Institute for Music at Rhodes College was founded in 2006 through a
generous gift from the Mike Curb Family Foundation. Through the Curb Concert Series,
the Institute brings signiﬁcant musicians associated with Memphis and the surrounding
region to campus for concerts and interactions with the Rhodes community. All concerts
are free and open to the general public.
The Jack D. Farris Visiting Writer Series
The Jack D. Farris Visiting Writers Series was established in 2013 by a bequest from the
late Kathleen McClain, class of 1974, as a memorial to her beloved teacher, mentor and
friend, Professor Jack D. Farris. The annual series brings to campus a renowned creative
writer for lectures, workshops, and a public reading and reception.
Printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/matters-record/college-sponsored-lecture-series
EmeritiMatters of Record https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/311
16 of 85 7/25/23, 12:56 PM
Mary Ross Burkhart . Professor Emerita of English since 1982. B.A., Mary Washington
College of the University of Virginia; M.A., University of Tennessee.
Angelo Margaris . Professor Emeritus of Mathematics since 1983. B.E.E., Cornell
University; M.A., Syracuse University; Ph.D., Cornell University.
Jack R. Conrad . Professor Emeritus of Anthropology since 1984. A.B. and M.A., Emory
University; Ph.D., Duke University.
Richard C. Wood . Professor Emeritus of English since 1988. B.A., Rhodes; M.A.,
Columbia University.
William L. Daniels . Professor Emeritus of English since 1990. B.A. and M.A., Vanderbilt
University; Ph.D., Harvard University.
Frederic R. Stauffer . Professor Emeritus of Physics since 1990. B.S. and M.S., Bucknell
University.
Johann Bruhwiler . Professor Emeritus of German since 1991. B.A., Carleton University
(Canada); M.A. and Ph.D., University of Cincinnati.
Jack H. Taylor . Professor Emeritus of Physics since 1992. B.S., Rhodes College; Ph.D.,
The Johns Hopkins University.
Robert G. Patterson . Professor Emeritus of Religious Studies since 1993. B.A.,
Washington and Lee University; B.D., Union Theological Seminary (Virginia); Ph.D., Yale
University.
Lawrence K. Anthony . Professor Emeritus of Art since 1995. B.A., Washington and Lee
University; M.F.A., University of Georgia.
Milton P. Brown, Jr . Professor Emeritus of Religious Studies since 1995. A.B.,
Birmingham-Southern College; B.D., Louisville Presbyterian Theological Seminary; Ph.D.,
Duke University.
Rebecca Sue Legge . Professor Emerita of Business Administration since 1995. B.B.A.,
M.B.A. and Ph.D., University of Mississippi.
Herbert W. Smith . Professor Emeritus of Psychology since 1995. B.A. and M.A., East
Texas State University; Ph.D., Florida State University.
G. Kenneth Williams . Professor Emeritus of Mathematics and Computer Science since
1995. B.A.E. and M.A., University of Kentucky; Ph.D., University of Virginia.
F. Thomas Cloar . Professor Emeritus of Psychology since 1996. B.A., Rhodes College;
M.A., University of Memphis; Ph.D., University of Alabama.
James W. Jobes, Jr . Professor Emeritus of Philosophy since 1996. B.A., St. John’s
College; Ph.D., University of Virginia.
Donald W. Tucker . Professor Emeritus of Spanish since 1998. B.S., Davidson College;
M.A. and Ph.D., University of North Carolina.
Edward A. Barnhardt . Associate Professor Emeritus of Physics since 1999. B.S.,
Rhodes College; M.S., Vanderbilt University.
James H. Daughdrill, Jr . President Emeritus since 1999. B.A., Emory University; M. Div.,
Columbia Theological Seminary; D.D., Davidson College.
Charles C. Orvis . Professor Emeritus of Economics since 2000. B.A., State University at
Northridge, California; Ph.D., University of Minnesota.Matters of Record https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/311
17 of 85 7/25/23, 12:56 PM
Bobby R. Jones . Professor Emeritus of Biology since 2001. B.S., University of Arkansas;
Ph.D., University of Missouri.
William L. Lacy . Professor Emeritus of Philosophy since 2001. B.A., Rhodes College;
Ph.D., University of Virginia.
Robert M. MacQueen . Professor Emeritus of Physics since 2001. B.S., Rhodes College;
Ph.D., The Johns Hopkins University.
F. Michael McLain . Professor Emeritus of Religious Studies since 2003. B.A., DePauw
University; B.D., Yale Divinity School; Ph.D., Vanderbilt University.
Carolyn P. Schriber . Professor Emerita of History since 2004. B.S., Kent State University;
M.A. and Ph.D., University of Colorado.
John L. Streete . Professor Emeritus of Physics since 2004. B.S., Rhodes College; M.S.
and Ph.D., University of Florida.
Douglas W. Hatﬁeld . Professor Emeritus of History since 2005. B.A. Baylor University;
M.A. and Ph.D., University of Kentucky.
Robert G. Mortimer . Professor Emeritus of Chemistry since 2005. B.S. and M.S. Utah
State University; Ph.D., California Institute of Technology.
Richard A. Batey . Professor Emeritus of Religious Studies since 2006. B.A., David
Lipscomb College; B.D. and Ph.D., Vanderbilt University.
Horst R. Dinkelacker . Professor Emeritus of German since 2006. Staatsexamen,
Eberhard-Karls-Universität Tübingen; Ph. D., Vanderbilt University
Diane M. Clark . Associate Professor Emerita of Music since 2006. B.M., Rhodes College;
M.M., Indiana University; D.A., University of Mississippi.
James C. Lanier . Professor Emeritus of History since 2006. B.A., Stetson University;
M.A. and Ph.D., Emory University.
Robert R. Llewellyn . Associate Professor Emeritus of Philosophy since 2006. B.A.,
Davidson College; M.A. and Ph.D., Vanderbilt University.
Marshall E. McMahon . Professor Emeritus of Economics and Business Administration
since 2007. B.A., University of the South; Ph.D., Vanderbilt University.
J. Peter Ekstrom . Associate Professor Emeritus of Anthropology and Sociology since
2007. B.A., Beloit College; M.A. The American University; Ph.D., University of Illinois.
James. M. Vest . Professor Emeritus of French since 2009. A.B., Davidson College; M.A.
and Ph.D., Duke University.  
Deborah N. Pittman . Associate Professor Emerita of Economics and Business since
2011. B.A. Rhodes College; M.S. University of Memphis; Ph.D. University of Memphis.
John F. Copper . Distinguished Professor Emeritus of International Studies since 2012.
B.A. University of Nebraska; M.A. University of Hawaii; Ph.D. University of South Carolina.
Gail P. C. Streete . Professor Emerita of Religious Studies since 2012. B.A., M.A., and
M.L.S. SUNY at Buffalo; M. Phil. and Ph.D. Drew University.
Robert J. Strandburg . Professor Emeritus of Psychology since 2013. B.A., Amherst
College; M.A. and Ph.D., University of California at Los Angeles.
John S. Olsen.  Professor Emeritus of Biology since 2014. B.S. and M.S. University of
Illinois; Ph.D. University of Texas.Matters of Record https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/311
18 of 85 7/25/23, 12:56 PM
Gail S. Murray . Professor Emerita of History since 2016. A.B., University of Michigan;
M.S.E., University of Central Arkansas; and Ph.D., University of Memphis.
Bette J. Ackerman . Professor Emerita of Psychology since 2016. B.A., Florida
Presbyterian College; M.A. & Ph.D., University of Florida.
David Y. Jeter . Professor Emeritus of Chemistry since 2016. B.S., Texas A&M University;
and Ph.D., University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill.
Jennifer Brady.  Professor Emerita of English since 2017. M.A. and Ph.D., Princeton
University.
Julia Ewing.  Professor Emerita of Theatre since 2017. B.A., Sienna College; M.A
University of Memphis.
Valeria Z. Nollan.  Professor Emerita of Russian Studies since 2017. B.A., University of
Delaware; M.A.. & Ph.D., University of Pittsburgh.  
John M. Planchon.  Professor Emeritus of Commerce and Business since 2019. A.B.,
A.M.  University of Missouri; Ph.D. University of Alabama.
Marcus D. Pohlmann.  Professor Emeritus of Political Science since 2019. B.A. Cornell
College; M.A. M. Phil. Ph.D. Columbia University.  
Pamela Church . Professor Emerita of Business since 2021. B.S., M.S. University of
Memphis; Ph.D. University of Houston.  
Carolyn R. Jaslow.  Professor Emerita of Biology since 2021. B.S. Mount Holyoke
College; M.S. Ohio University; Ph.D. The University of Chicago.  
Brian W. Shaffer.  Professor Emeritus of English since 2021. A.B. Washington University;
Ph.D. The University of Iowa. 
Marsha D. Walton.  Professor Emeritus of Psychology since 2021. B.A. and Ph.D.
University of North Carolina.  
Terri Lindquester. Associate Professor Emerita of Mathematics since 2022. B.S. & Ph.D.
Emory University.
Gary Lindquester . Professor Emeritus of Biology since 2022. B.S. Furman University;
M.S. and Ph.D. Emory University.
Michael Drompp . Professor Emeritus of History since 2022. B.A., M.A., & Ph.D. Indiana
University.
Shira Malkin . Associate Professor Emerita of Modern Languages and Literatures. B.A.,
M.A., & Ph.D. Universite de Paris.  
Printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/matters-record/emeriti
Endowments, Awards, and Memorials
Professorships and Faculty Fellowships
The Connie Abston Chair in Literature  was created in 1998 by former trustee DunbarMatters of Record https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/311
19 of 85 7/25/23, 12:56 PM
Abston, Jr. in honor of his wife. Dr. Caki Wilkinson, Associate Professor of English, holds
the Abston Chair.
The Winton M. Blount Chair in Social Sciences  was provided by the estate of Winton M.
Blount, Chair of Rhodes'  Board of Trustees 1988-92. Mr. Blount was a former U.S.
Postmaster General and founder of Blount, Inc., an international construction ﬁrm based in
Montgomery, Alabama. Dr. Katie White, Professor of Psychology, currently holds the
Blount Chair.
The L. Palmer Brown Chair of Interdisciplinary Humanities  supports a professorship in the
interdisciplinary course, “The Search for Values in the Light of Western History and
Religion.”  Professor Miriam Clinton, Professor of Art and Art History, is the current holder
of the Interdisciplinary Professorship.
The Neville Frierson Bryan Chair in African-American Literary & Cultural Studies  was
established in 2002 by former trustee and alumna Neville Frierson Bryan '58 of Chicago.
 currently holds the Bryan Chair.
The Mertie Willigar Buckman Chair in International Studies  was established in 1990 by
trustee Robert H. Buckman to honor his mother. Dr.  Nikolaos Zahariadis, Professor of
International Studies, holds the Chair.
The Stanley J. Buckman Distinguished Professorship of International Studies , provided by
trustee Robert H. Buckman, honors the founder of Buckman Laboratories and longtime
friend and trustee of the college. The current occupant is Dr.  Amy Risley,  Professor of
International Studies.
The Lester Crain Chair in Physics  was established in 2002 by trustee and alumnus Lester
Crain, Jr. '51. Dr.  Ann Viano, Associate Professor of Physics, currently holds the Chair.
The Albert Bruce Curry Professorship of Religious Studies  was provided and sustained by
Second Presbyterian Church of Memphis. Dr. Patrick Gray, Professor of Religious Studies,
is the current Curry Professor.
The Elizabeth G. Daughdrill and James H. Daughdrill, Jr. Professorships  were provided by
the Rhodes Board of Trustees in 1998 to recognize President and Mrs. Daughdrill's
exemplary leadership and service to the college for 25 years. Dr. Vanessa Rogers,
Associate Professor of Music, is the current occupant of the Elizabeth G. Daughdrill Chair.
The James H. Daughdrill, Jr. Chair is held by Dr. Larryn Peterson, Associate Professor of
Chemistry.
The F. Elaine Donelson '59 Chair in Psychology  allows for the creation of a department
chair in Psychology.
The E. C. Ellett Professorship of Mathematics and Computer Science  was created byMatters of Record https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/311
20 of 85 7/25/23, 12:56 PM
Edward Coleman Ellett, Class of 1888. Dr.  Erin Bodine  is the current Ellett Professor.
The Fulmer Chair in Political Science for U.S. Presidential Studies  was established in
2005 by Arthur Fulmer and the late Nancy Hill Fulmer '51, Rhodes trustee, to support work
in the Department of Political Science. Dr. Michael Nelson, Professor of Political Science,
currently holds the Fulmer Chair.
The Charles R. Glover Professorship of English Studies  was provided by Mrs. Charles R.
Glover and is occupied by Amy Benson, Associate Professor of English.
The William Randolph Hearst Endowed Teaching Fellowship for Minority Graduate
Students  supports minority teaching fellows at Rhodes as they complete their
dissertations. 
The Ralph C. Hon Chair in Economics  was provided by alumni who studied under Dr. Hon
during his tenure as Professor of Economics. Dr. Courtney Collins, Assistant Professor of
Economics, currently holds the Chair.
The Joseph R. Hyde, III Professorship of Political Economy  is an annually-funded position
established in 2010 in the Department of Economics to support the study of Political
Economy. It is provided by the J.R. Hyde, III Family Foundation and other anonymous
donors. Dr.  Shameel Ahmed,  Assistant Professor of Economics, is the current occupant.
The Robert D. McCallum Distinguished Professorship of Economics and Business  was
funded by the late Robert D. McCallum, Chairman Emeritus, Valmac Industries, Inc. and
life trustee of Rhodes. Dr.  Nick McKinney, Professor of Economics, is the current
occupant.
The J. J. McComb Professorship of History  was provided by Mr. J. J. McComb and is
occupied by Dr.  Etty Terem, Professor of History.
The Irene and J. Walter McDonnell Chair in Greek and Roman Studies  was established by
trustee Michael McDonnell in memory of his parents. Dr. Kenny Morrell, Associate
Professor of Ancient Mediterranean Studies, is the current occupant.
The Virginia Ballou McGehee Professorship of Muslim-Christian Relations  was
established by James E. McGehee, Jr. and Virginia Ballou McGehee '46 in 2007. Dr. John
Kaltner is the current occupant of the McGehee Chair.
The W. J. Millard Professorship of Religious Studies  was provided by his friends at
Evergreen Presbyterian Church in Memphis and honors the late senior minister of the
church. Prof. Brooke Schedneck, Associate Professor of Religious Studies, is the current
holder of the Millard Professorship.
The Plough Professor of Urban Studies  was provided by an endowment grant from theMatters of Record https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/311
21 of 85 7/25/23, 12:56 PM
Plough Foundation. Dr. Elizabeth Thomas, Associate Professor of Psychology, is the
current holder of this Professorship.
James T. and Valeria B. Robertson Chair in Biological Science  was established in 2005 by
James T. Robertson '53 and Valeria B. Robertson to support teaching and research in
biology and related areas. Prof. Jonathan FitzGerald, Associate Professor of Biology,
holds the Robertson Chair.
The James D. Robinson Chair in Economics and Business Administration  was established
in 2004 by Martha Robinson to honor a professor in the chemistry, business or economics
department. Dr. Kelly Weeks, Associate Professor of Business is the current holder of this
Chair.
The James F. Rufﬁn Professorship of Art and Archaeology  was established by the late
James F. Rufﬁn, Jr., founder and operator of Rufﬁn’s Imports and Interiors of Memphis. His
mark can be found all around the Rhodes campus as well as the President’s home. The
holder of the Rufﬁn Professorship is Victor Coonin, Professor of Art and Art History.
The J. S. Seidman Fellowship in International Studies  is supported by the estate of
Rhodes trustee P. K. Seidman. Dr. Esen Kirdis, Associate Professor of International
Studies currently holds this Fellowship.
The P. K. Seidman Distinguished Professorship of Political Economy  was provided by
Robert H. Buckman and the late Mertie W. Buckman, in honor of their friend, the late P. K.
Seidman. Dr. Steve Ceccoli, Associate Professor of International Studies is the current
P.K. Seidman Distinguished Professor.
The Irma O. Sternberg Chair in History  was established in 2012 with a gift from Mrs.
Sternberg’s estate. Dr. Tim Huebner is the ﬁrst holder of this Chair.
The Van Vleet Fellowship  was provided by The Van Vleet Foundation. The Fellowship,
occupied by Dr.  Brent Hoffmeister, Professor of Physics, provides for student research and
strengthens the Physics Department.
The Robert R. Waller Chair in Population Health , named for trustee Dr. Bob Waller, was
established in 2017 to provide leadership and community for Urban Studies majors with a
concentration in Urban and Community Health. Dr. Kendra Hotz, Associate Professor of
Urban Studies, is the current Chair.
The R. A. Webb Professorship of Religious Studies  was provided by a friend of the
college. Dr. Sarah Rollens, Associate Professor of Religious Studies is the current Webb
Professor.
The Spence L. Wilson Distinguished Chair in Humanities  was established by trustee
Spence L. Wilson, his wife Rebecca Webb Wilson, and the Kemmons Wilson FamilyMatters of Record https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/311
22 of 85 7/25/23, 12:56 PM
Foundation. 
The T. K. Young Professorship of English Literature  was established by Idlewild
Presbyterian Church in 1955 in honor of their senior minister. Dr.  Leslie Petty, Associate
Professor of English, currently holds the Young Chair.
Special Funds
The Frank and Marjo Benton Student Travel Fund  was created in 2012 by Marjo and
Frank Benton P'13 to support Math and Computer Science students when they attend
professional meetings and conferences.
The Booth Cody Dortch Quinn Endowment for the Humanities  was created in 2013 by
Joan and John Quinn '58. The endowment will help bring nationally recognized leaders to
campus to create special learning opportunities that will provide the foundation for
community-wide dialogue.
The Boyle Endowment for the Study of Liberal Democracy  was provided in 2008 by
trustee J. Bayard Boyle, Jr. and his family. It is housed in the Department of Political
Science to encourage and support teaching and research concerning the nature of
constitutional government and the sources, principles, and practice of the institution of
liberal democracy.
The Rosanna Cappellato Memorial Fund  was established in 2013 through the estate of
Rosanna Capellato and gifts from her friends.
The Charles P. Cobb '44 Endowment for Music , established in 2011 through his estate,
provides discretionary funding for the Music Department to be used with the approval of
the Dean of the Faculty. The Cobb Endowment may provide student fellowships or other
support for the teaching and learning of music.
The Crain Family Counseling Support Fund was established to beneﬁt student counseling
at Rhodes in order to meet the emotional needs of our students.
The Mike Curb Institute for Music  was founded in 2006 by Mike and Linda Curb through
the Mike Curb Family Foundation to foster awareness and understanding of the distinct
musical traditions of the South and to study the effect music has had on its culture, history,
and economy. Through the areas of preservation, research, leadership, and civic
responsibility, the Institute provides support for faculty and facilitates opportunities for
students to experience learning outside the classroom In partnership with the community.
The Pete Ekstrom Faculty Development Fund in Anthropology and Sociology  was
established in 2006 by an anonymous alumna. It will provide support for faculty to direct
and mentor a student, pursue collaborative research, or develop enhancements to theirMatters of Record https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/311
23 of 85 7/25/23, 12:56 PM
programs. The chair of the department will determine the use of these funds.
The Jack D. Farris Visiting Writers Series was established in 2002 by a bequest from the
Kathleen McClain '74 as a memorial to her beloved teacher, mentor and friend, Professor
Jack D. Farris. Each year the Department of English will host published writers for
readings and lectures.
The Julia Johnson Garrett '01 Library Collection Endowment  was established in her honor
by her parents, Edith H. and James R. Garrett, in 2001. Funds from the endowment are
used to purchase rare or other books in the ﬁeld of Art History, rare or other books in the
ﬁeld of Religious Studies, books in the ﬁeld of Early Childhood Education, or if there is no
need in those areas, where the need is greatest.
The Gerber-Taylor Fund  was created by Meg and Charles Gerber in 2010 to provide
funding for four years which will support student fellowships, programming, and staff in the
Rhodes Learning Corridor. The Gerber-Taylor Fund will be used to provide an afterschool
enhancement program and a community garden for nutritional education at the Promise
Academy in the Learning Corridor.
The Martin-Kragh Faculty Development Fund for Biology and Chemistry  was established
in 2006 by former Rhodes trustee J. Stephen Martin and his late wife, Nancy Kragh
Martin, parents of Stuart '08, to provide support for faculty in biology and chemistry to
direct and mentor a student, pursue collaborative research, or develop enhancements to
their programs.
The Michaelcheck Endowment for Faculty Support  was created in 2000 by Rhodes Board
Chair William J. Michaelcheck '69 and his wife Pam to provide funds for travel by faculty
members to support their research and other academic endeavors.
The Julian C. Nall '43 and Family Endowment for Faculty Support  was established in 2011
by Julian C. Nall '43 and his family. It supports faculty professional development to help
achieve career goals and better mentor students.
The Herta and Walter Nelson Library Fund  was created by Professor Michael Nelson in
1992 and named in honor of his parents. The fund was established to purchase faculty
authored books for the Paul Barret, Jr. Library collection.
The Overend Endowment for Film Studies  was created through the generosity of an
alumnus in 2001. It provides support for guest speakers, ﬁlms, books, and equipment
purchases related to ﬁlm studies.
The Iris A. Pearce Shakespeare Endowment  was established in 2007 through the estate
of Dr. Pearce '42. The endowment is used to enhance and enrich courses in
Shakespeare, to provide guest speakers or visiting Shakespeare scholars and to fundMatters of Record https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/311
24 of 85 7/25/23, 12:56 PM
research in the teaching of Shakespeare.
The Rhodes Athletic Equipment Fund  was established in 2013 in honor of Mike Clary '77
by Dr. and Mrs. James H. Daughdrill.
Rhodes CARES (Center for Academic Research and Education through Service) , funded
by a $6 million grant from the Robert and Ruby Priddy Charitable Trust of Wichita Falls,
Texas, exists to strengthen undergraduate research and service tied to scholarship. The
center encompasses programs such as Rhodes Institute for Regional Studies, Rhodes St.
Jude Summer Plus research program, and Rhodes Learning Corridor. It also provides aid
to students who have demonstrated experience in and commitment to community service.
The Richardson  Endowment for the Arts  was established by the late Kathleen Richardson
in 2007. It provides support for Arts programs that foster leadership, vision,
communications and innovation for future leaders in the ﬁne arts.
The James R. Riedmeyer Collection  was established in 1987 by Mr. Riedmeyer, then
Senior Vice President, Federal Express Corporation. It is used to purchase books and
periodicals in aviation, transportation, and communication.
The Riley Discretionary Endowment for Barret Library  was created in 1998 by Dr. Robert I.
Bourne, Jr. '54 and Anne Riley Bourne '54 in loving memory of Rev. Robert Quitman Riley,
Class of 1894 (Anne’s grandfather); John Riley, Class of 1926 (Anne’s father); and Maclin
Broadnax Riley, Class of 1930 (Anne’s uncle). It provides funds to be used at the
discretion of the Director of Barret Library.
The Charles Robertson '65 Endowment for Student Research and Engagement in
Physics  was established in 2007 by Charles Robertson '65 to support research fellowships
for students to work with Rhodes physics faculty. It will also support the students in
activities that will engage them in the physics community and the community at large.
Recipients are selected through an annual competitive application process.
The Jack U. Russell Collection  was established in 1986 in his memory by his son Mark
Russell. The Russell Collection is used to enhance the mathematics collection in honor of
Dr. Russell's service at Rhodes as Professor of Mathematics 1954-1981.
The Ruyl Family Fellowship in Global History  is the Department of History's premier
experience for students majoring in History.   It was established by Marci McTier to allow a
rising junior or senior to explore any aspect of global history, broadly deﬁned.
The Herb Smith Endowment  was established in 2010 to support Meeman Center classes
that had been taught by Herb Smith, most notably “The Art of Conscious Living.”
The Paul Snodgrass '46  Endowment for the  Arts  was established through his estate. It
provides support for the Arts programs that foster leadership, vision, communications andMatters of Record https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/311
25 of 85 7/25/23, 12:56 PM
innovation for future leaders in the ﬁne arts.
The Helen Stauffer Memorial Library Fund  was established in 2006 to provide funds to
beneﬁt the Paul Barret, Jr. Library.
The Irma Sternberg Faculty Support Fund in American History  was established in 2009
through the estate of Irma Sternberg to support research and teaching in American history.
The Lynne and Henry Turley Memphis Center includes a range of institutes, programs and
initiatives focused on the human experience of the Memphis and Mid-South region.
The White Family Regional Studies Endowment  was created in 2007 through a bequest of
John White '67. It supports students studying history through the Rhodes Institute for
Regional Studies. Students selected for this opportunity are chosen through a competitive
proposal process reviewed by the faculty of the institute.
The Spence Wilson Faculty Support in Religious Studies Endowment  was established in
2012 by Spence L. Wilson, former Chair and current member of the Rhodes Board of
Trustees. The recipient is Dr. Steven L. McKenzie.
Art Collections
The Robert I. and Anne Riley Bourne Collection  was given in 1998 by the Bournes, both
members of the Class of 1954. The photographic prints represent the work of
distinguished photographer Edward J. Curtis and document life of Native Americans in the
Paciﬁc Northwest, circa 1905. Selected prints are periodically displayed in the Clough-
Hanson Gallery and are used for teaching.
The Jessie L. Clough Art Memorial for Teaching  was given to Rhodes in 1953 by sisters
Floy and Etta Hanson in memory of their friend and ﬁrst art teacher. The collection of
Asian woodcut prints, porcelains, fabrics, and other objects forms the basis of the
college's teaching collection. Selected objects are periodically displayed in the Clough-
Hanson Gallery.
The Dorothy Seymour Harnden Collection in North American Native Art  was given to
Rhodes in 1990 in her memory by her husband, the late Robert C. Harnden. The Harnden
Collection is on permanent display in Halliburton Tower and Buckman Hall.
The Harvey A. Pankin Collection  was given in his memory by his son Jayson D. Pankin of
Michigan in 1997. The prints, dating from 1960-80, document many of the styles or
movements of those decades, including op art, hard-edged abstractions, ﬁgurative art,
and photo-realism. Selected prints are periodically displayed in the Clough-Hanson
Gallery and are used for teaching.Matters of Record https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/311
26 of 85 7/25/23, 12:56 PM
Awards
The Louise and Ward Archer, Sr. Award for Creativity , given by his late wife and his
children, recognizes the student selected as having demonstrated the most creativity at
Rhodes. The award honors the memory of Ward Archer, Sr. '39, founder of Ward Archer &
Associates, now the public relations ﬁrm Archer/Malmo, and his wife Louise Thompson
Archer '44, whose early career was in the advertising ﬁeld in New York.
The Mac Armour Physics Fellows  were established in 2015 in memory of Mac Armour '16
by Meri and Donald Armour.
The Anne Howard Bailey '45 Prize for Creative Writing was established by the estate of
Anne Howard Bailey '45 in 2009 and given annually for excellence and merit in Creative
Writing.
The J. Allen Boone '71 Award  was established in 2013 by Dr. and Mrs. James H.
Daughdrill. It is awarded to the Most Outstanding Student in Accounting.
The William Bruce '11 Award for Outstanding Paper in Art History  was created in 2013 by
Louise and Mike Bruce P'11 in memory of their son. This award is determined based on
the review of student papers each spring by the Art History faculty.
The Pam Church Master of Accounting Award  is given annually to the Masters of
Accounting student-of-the-year, in honor of former Rhodes faculty member Pam Church.
The Ruth Moore Cobb Award in Instrumental Music  was established by the late trustee
Charles P. Cobb '44 in honor of his wife. The award is presented annually to the
outstanding student instrumentalist in the Music Department as judged by the Music
faculty.
The Estelle R. Cone Award  is given annually to that student selected for outstanding
service in an individual project through the Kinney Program. The award is in memory of
Mrs. Cone, who was Kinney Program Director from its founding until 1975.
The Charlie Cook Award for Excellence in Political Science  was established in 2013 by
Lucy and Charlie Cook P'08. The scholarship is awarded to a senior who shows
excellence in Political Science.
The J. Hal Daughdrill Award  was established in 1986 by friends of Rhodes with memorial
gifts to remember the eighteenth President's father. The award goes to the most valuable
player of the football team.
The Clarence Day Award for Outstanding Teaching , established in 1981 by the late
Clarence C. Day '52 of Memphis, is given annually to a full-time member of the teaching
faculty at Rhodes to recognize excellence in teaching.Matters of Record https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/311
27 of 85 7/25/23, 12:56 PM
The Dean’s Award for Outstanding Research and Creative Activity  was established by the
late Clarence C. Day '52 of Memphis in 1981 to recognize a Rhodes faculty member for
signiﬁcant research and/or creative activity which has been brought to fruition in a public
form, e.g. scholarly writing, public performances.
The CBIZ MHM Accounting Awards previously known as The Thompson Dunavant PLC
Accounting Awards  were established by Thompson Dunavant PLC in 2008. One award is
given each year to an outstanding junior majoring in commerce and business to provide
ﬁnancial aid during the senior year. A second award is given to an outstanding senior
majoring in commerce and business who will enter and use the award for ﬁnancial aid in
the Rhodes' Masters of Science in Accounting program the academic year immediately
after graduation.
The Theodore William Eckels International Business Internships  were established in 2010
by his wife Betty Eckels, her son Rick Eckels '70 and her daughter-in-law, Rhodes trustee
Laila Adams Eckels '71. This internship outside the U.S. at an international business is
restricted to deserving rising juniors and seniors majoring in commerce and business or
economics with relevant foreign language skills.
The Garrott Award  was established in honor of Thomas M. Garrott, III. Chosen by the
Political Economy faculty members, this award recognizes a student who has
demonstrated excellence in Political Economy.
The Donald J. Gattas Memorial Award  is given annually to the student judged to be most
outstanding in Middle Eastern Studies.
The Rebecca Rish Gay Most Outstanding Female Athlete of the Year Award  was
established in 1996 by Dr. and Mrs. James H. Daughdrill, Jr. in memory of her mother.
The Walter E. Gay Most Oustanding Male Athlete of the Year Award  was established in
1996 by Dr. and Mrs. James H. Daughdrill, Jr. in honor of her father.
The Mel Grinspan Award for the Outstanding Intern  was established in honor of the late
Mel G. Grinspan, Professor Emeritus of Economics. The award recognizes a student who
exempliﬁes excellence in achieving signiﬁcant and measurable credit within the internship
program.
The Sally Becker Grinspan Award for Artistic Achievement  was established during his
lifetime by Professor Emeritus Mel G. Grinspan to honor his wife. It is presented each year
to a student majoring in art who produces that piece of art, in any medium, which is
selected by a committee of artists and/or art curators as an outstanding creation.
The Michael E. Hendrick '67 Award in Organic Chemistry  was established in his memory
by his wife Martha S. Laurie '69 and their friends. It provides a summer stipend forMatters of Record https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/311
28 of 85 7/25/23, 12:56 PM
outstanding students to conduct research in the ﬁeld of organic chemistry.
The Ralph C. Hon Leadership Award recognizes a senior Commerce and Business major
who has the highest achievement in the area of leadership.
The Hunter Award for Excellence in Neuroscience  was established in 2006 through the
estate of Arthur W. and Doris B. Hunter to recognize graduating neuroscience majors, who
have been accepted into a graduate program in neuroscience or a related ﬁeld, and who
have excelled in the classroom and laboratory.
The Wasfy B. Iskander International Internship in Economics  was provided by family and
friends of the late economics professor. It provides an internship experience outside the
U.S. for a rising senior majoring in economics.
The Jameson M. Jones Award for Outstanding Faculty Service  continues a practice of
recognizing faculty service ﬁrst started by the Charles E. Diehl Society in 1988. The
award, which honors a current faculty member who has rendered exemplary service and
provided leadership to the Rhodes community, was provided in 2005 by Rhodes alumnus
and trustee, John D. Gladney '74. Dr. Jameson M. Jones '36 served as professor of moral
philosophy and dean of the college from 1955 to 1971.
The Jane Donaldson Kepple Writing Prizes  are awarded annually to four students for
excellence in writing as judged by a committee of faculty members. The awards are given
in four categories: Freshman English Essay; Senior English Essay; Poetry, Fiction, and
Drama; and Scholarly Essay. These prizes were established in 1985 by Thomas R.
Kepple, Jr. in memory of his wife.
The Rose & Solly Korsakov Psychology Award  was provided by Allan B. Korsakov '64 to
honor his parents’ memory, foresight, wisdom, and sacriﬁces for their two sons. The
Korsakov Award recognizes an outstanding student in the ﬁeld of psychology.
The Morelle Legg International Internship for Women  provides international internship
opportunities with preference given to female economics or commerce and business
majors.
The George Lapides Sportsmanship Award  was established in 2014 by various donors. It
will be awarded every spring at the Rhodes Athletic Banquet to the senior athlete who
best exempliﬁes highest level of sportsmanship.
The Colonel David Henry Likes International Studies Award  was established in honor of
Colonel Likes by Vernon M. Lester and is granted to an outstanding junior majoring in
international studies.
The Freeman C. Marr Track and Field Award  is presented annually to the outstandingMatters of Record https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/311
29 of 85 7/25/23, 12:56 PM
athlete who best exempliﬁes dedication to the principles of scholarship and athletics. This
award honors Freeman C. Marr '48: athlete, scholar, coach and dedicated alumnus of the
college.
The Cynthia Marshall Award  was created in 2005 by family and friends of Professor
Cynthia Marshall. The award is given to the most deserving senior majoring in English
who is pursuing graduate studies in any ﬁeld in the humanities.
The Robert D. McCallum Competitive Enterprise Award  was established by Dr. Ben. W.
Bolch, Professor Emeritus of Economics and Business Administration, in honor of the late
Robert D. McCallum, a trustee of the college. It is awarded annually to a student who is
deemed to have carried out the most signiﬁcant entrepreneurial activity while at Rhodes.
The Mollie Royall McCord Memorial Prize in Bible  was established by a bequest from
Mollie R. McCord '36. It goes to a senior or rising senior who has shown promise in this
area and is interested in a career as a church minister, missionary or medical missionary.
The Susan Tidball Means Award  was created in 1991 to be awarded to a junior student
and to assist in underwriting a project in Women's Studies.
The Fred Neal Freshman Prize  is awarded to the outstanding student in the
interdisciplinary course, “The Search for Values in the Light of Western History and
Religion.” It was established by friends of Professor Neal during his lifetime.
The Lynn Nettleton Prize  was created by Lynn N. and Olive Allen Hughes in memory of his
grandfather and in honor of their daughter, Dixon Presswood Schultz '83. It is awarded to
the senior who has written the year's most outstanding paper in economics or business.
The Memphis Panhellenic Association , in its desire to encourage scholarship, presents an
award to the sorority woman of the graduating class at Rhodes College having the highest
scholastic average for her entire college career.
The John Planchon Award  for Excellence in Commerce and Business was established in
2013 by Dr. and Mrs. James H. Daughdrill. It is awarded to the Most Outstanding Student
in Business and Commerce.
The Marcus D. Pohlmann Award in Political Science and Mock Trial was established in
2019 in honor of Professor Marcus Pohlmann upon his retirement. The purpose of this
annual award is to recognize outstanding senior student achievement in Political Science
and Mock Trial.
The Peyton Nalle Rhodes Phi Beta Kappa Award  was created by members of the Rhodes
Chapter of Phi Beta Kappa.
The Margaret R. & Rudolf R. Ruyl Award for Religious Studies was established in 1996 byMatters of Record https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/311
30 of 85 7/25/23, 12:56 PM
The Ruyl Family Fund in memory of Margaret F. ′61 & Rudolf R. Ruyl. This annual award
supports faculty development. 
The Jack U. Russell Awards in Mathematics  were established by friends of Professor Jack
Russell of Rhodes. They are awarded to outstanding mathematics students selected by
the Department of Mathematics and Computer Science.
The Jane Hyde Scott Awards , established by a bequest from Jane Hyde Scott '30, are
given to rising seniors for special academic activities in the summer prior to the senior
year. Five awards are given annually: The Robert Allen Scott Award in Mathematics, The
Joseph Reeves Hyde Award in Religious Studies, The Ruth Sherman Hyde Award in
Music, The Margaret Rufﬁn Hyde Award in Psychology, and
The W. O. Shewmaker Memorial Fund  was established by alumni and friends in memory
of Dr. W. O. Shewmaker, Professor of Bible at Rhodes 1925-41. The income from this
fund is used annually for an award of books to the student who attains the highest
distinction in the interdisciplinary course, “The Search for Values in the Light of Western
History and Religion.”
The Ida LeBlanc “Lee” Smith Foreign Studies Award  was established in her memory by
her family, friends and classmates. Lee '05 is remembered for her enhancement of her
Rhodes experience through participation in the college's British Studies at Oxford
program. This award helps to fund a study abroad opportunity for a student who might not
otherwise be ﬁnancially able to undertake such study.
The Spencer Prizes in Greek  were established in memory of Mr. H. N. Spencer, Port
Gibson, Mississippi. They are awarded to those students in each class who attain the
highest distinction. In addition, a prize is awarded to the student who has attained the
highest absolute, not merely relative, grade during four years of Greek courses.
The Algernon Sydney Sullivan Award s, a medallion and certiﬁcate provided by the New
York Southern Society of the City of New York, are awarded to the man and woman
students of the graduating class and to one outstanding citizen of the community who best
exemplify Mr. Sullivan’s ideals of excellence in character and service to humanity.
The Jeanne Scott Varnell Award in Classical Languages .
The Spence Wilson Faculty International Travel Fund  was established in 2007 by the
Kemmons Wilson Family Foundation in honor of Rhodes trustee Spence L. Wilson. The
funds will be used to fund faculty international travel opportunities including but not limited
to conducting research outside the U.S.; collaborating with colleagues from throughout the
world; traveling to retool or expand our curriculum; presenting papers at international
conferences; and taking students abroad.Matters of Record https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/311
31 of 85 7/25/23, 12:56 PM
The Rob Wolcott '93 Endowed Internship  was provided by family and friends to support an
internship at the Church Health Center in recognition of Rob's commitment to service and
health care for the poor and homeless.
The Li Xiuying Memorial Award for Chinese Language Excellence was established by
Professor Han Li and Stephen Ceccoli. The award recognizes a student who excels in
studying the Chinese language.
Scholarships and Fellowships
The following listing of scholarships and fellowships is provided for informational purposes
to showcase the rich scope of opportunities at Rhodes and to honor the generous
benefactors who have provided these scholarships and fellowships. Please refer to the
Financial Aid Application Procedures if you are interested in pursuing scholarship
assistance at Rhodes. You should be aware that not every scholarship is available every
year. Many of the scholarships listed here are renewable and are retained by the chosen
recipients throughout their four years at Rhodes. You can be conﬁdent, however, that each
aid applicant is automatically considered for every available scholarship and fellowship for
which s/he qualiﬁes.
The 100 Club of Memphis Scholarship  was endowed by the 100 Club of Memphis to
assist Memphis and Shelby County law enforcement ofﬁcers, ﬁreﬁghters, and their
immediate family members.
The George I. Alden Trust Scholarship  was funded by a challenge grant from the George
I. Alden Trust and gifts from alumni and friends of the college. It is used for general
scholarship aid for students with need.
The Elizabeth Alley Ahlgren Art Scholarship  was established in 1987 by Dr. Frank R.
Ahlgren of Memphis in honor of his wife for worthy students interested in painting or
sculpture.
The Emerson A. and Emily Peale Alburty Scholarships  were established by Mr. and Mrs.
Alburty of Memphis during their lifetimes. Selection of the scholarship recipients is based
primarily on ﬁnancial need and preference will be given to Memphis and Shelby County
residents.
The Mary Orme Amis Scholarships for Women  were established by family members to
honor their mother and are awarded to deserving female students.
The Catherine D. Anderson Scholarship  was established by the late Ms. Anderson of
Hughes, Arkansas.
The Walter P. Armstrong, Sr. Memorial Scholarship  was established by Dr. Walter P.Matters of Record https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/311
32 of 85 7/25/23, 12:56 PM
Armstrong, Jr., the law ﬁrm of Armstrong Allen, and friends.
The A. L. Aydelott Students Memorial Scholarship Fund  was established by his daughter,
the late Mrs. Josephine A. Johnson, Memphis.
The Mary Lowry Bacon Scholarship  was established by her son, Henry W. Bacon, and her
granddaughter, Barbara B. Henderson. It is awarded to a student of religion.
The John W. Baird M.D. and Florence D. Baird Scholarship  was established in 1999 by
Florence Baird '40. It provides aid to deserving students with demonstrated ﬁnancial need.
The Minnie Lee Hamer Bales '35 Scholarship for the Arts  was created in 2010 through her
estate. It provides support for  Arts programs that foster leadership, vision,
communications and innovation for future leaders in the ﬁne arts.
The Dr. Leon T. Banakas '53 Scholarship  was established by Mrs. Frances Mellen-
Banakas in memory of her husband. It provides aid to deserving pre-medical students on
the basis of academic promise and ability.
The Albert D. Banta Scholarships  provide for Rhodes College one-third of the income from
a trust created by the late Albert D. Banta, Shreveport, Louisiana.
The Donna Lorraine Barlett Scholarship , created by alumna Ms. Barlett '80, gives
preference to students with ﬁnancial need who are in foster care or who are from a single-
parent household.
The Frank G. Barton Scholarship Fund  was established by his wife, the late Mrs. Pauline
C. Barton, Memphis.
The James H. and Carol P. Barton International Study Fellowship  was established by
Rhodes trustee James H. Barton in 2006. It provides ﬁnancial aid for deserving students
who desire to study abroad. Recipients are selected by competitive application.
The Adam P. Beeler Christian Service with Youth Scholarship  was established by the
family and friends of the late Adam Beeler '99. The scholarship is to be awarded to a
deserving junior or senior who has demonstrated a commitment to Christian service in an
under-resourced environment with preference given to students who have been active
with STREETS Ministries and/or The Neighborhood School.
The Bellingrath Fellowships  were established through the will of Walter D. Bellingrath.
Consideration is by nomination only and the Bellingrath Scholars are chosen based on
their academic and extracurricular records and an interview by a scholarship selection
committee.
The BellSouth Mobility Scholarship  was provided by BellSouth Mobility, now merged intoMatters of Record https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/311
33 of 85 7/25/23, 12:56 PM
AT&T, for a deserving student with demonstrated ﬁnancial need. Preference is given to
students from Memphis.
The Francis B. and Mildred Benton Scholarship  was established in 2006 through the
estate of Francis B. Benton '36 to aid deserving students participating in the Center for
Outreach in the Development of the Arts at Rhodes. The program fosters leadership,
vision, communications and innovation for future leaders in the arts.
The Jacque Hammett Betts and Margarette H. Wurtsbaugh Scholarship  was established
by the late Mrs. Betts, and Mr. and Mrs. Alfred D. Wilhelm of Little Rock, in memory of
these sisters who were Mrs. Wilhelm's aunts.
The Herman W. Bevis Scholarship  was created and later endowed in her lifetime by the
late Mrs. Jenny Lyde Bevis in memory of her husband, Herman Bevis '30.
The Winton and Carolyn Blount Service Scholarship  was provided in 2005 by the estate of
Winton M. Blount, Chair of Rhodes'  Board of Trustees 1988-92. Mr. Blount was a former
U.S. Postmaster General and founder of Blount, Inc., an international construction ﬁrm
based in Montgomery, Alabama. It provides ﬁnancial aid for deserving students who have
demonstrated experience and commitment to community service.
The Bonner Foundation Scholarships , funded by The Corella and Bertram F. Bonner
Foundation, provide ﬁnancial aid for deserving students who demonstrate experience and
commitment to community service and have high ﬁnancial need. Each student receives a
grant for ﬁnancial aid, a stipend to substitute for work study aid, and a summer living
allowance.
The Eleanor and Millard Bosworth Scholarship  was established in their memory by their
daughter, the late Eleanor Bosworth Shannon. It is awarded annually to students with
need.
The Elizabeth Bourne Webb '81 & John Riley Bourne Service Scholarship  was established
by Dr. and Mrs. Robert Irl Bourne, Jr., members of the class of 1954. The scholarship is
awarded to students who demonstrate interest and involvement in community service as
an applicant to Rhodes and while at Rhodes commit to engage in approximately ten hours
of weekly community service.
The Dr. Robert Irl and Anne Riley Bourne Scholarship  was established by the Bournes,
both members of the Class of 1954, to be awarded to deserving students on the basis of
academic promise and ability.
The Helen M. Bowld Scholarship  is awarded each year to a student of religion in grateful
memory of Miss Helen M. Bowld, a dedicated member of the college staff for many years.
The J. Bayard Boyle, Sr. Scholarship  was created by the late Sam M. Fleming of NashvilleMatters of Record https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/311
34 of 85 7/25/23, 12:56 PM
to honor the memory of his good friend. Additional support was provided by Joanne
Fleming Hayes and Toby S. Wilt. It is awarded to a student with ﬁnancial need.
The Arabia Wooten Brakeﬁeld '42 and Betty Mae Wooten Michael Scholarship  was
established by their father, the late Mr. Hoyt B. Wooten, Memphis.
The Helen '51 and Denby Brandon '50 Scholarship  was established in 1999 by Mr. and
Mrs. Brandon in honor of their 50th class reunions.
The Theodore Brent Scholarship  was established by Mr. Brent of New Orleans.
The C.A. and Louise Branyan Fellowship  was established in 2009 by Carole Louise
Branyan '67 in memory of her parents. This fellowship gives preference to female
graduates from White Station High School, Memphis, TN who are of the Presbyterian
faith.
The Charles and Helen Branyan Fellowship  was created by Carole Louise Branyan '67 in
2009 to honor the memory of her aunt and uncle. This fellowship gives preference to
female graduates from White Station High School, Memphis, TN who are of the
Presbyterian faith.
The LeNeil McCullough Broach Scholarship  was funded through the estate of Ms. LeNeil
McCullough Broach '29.
The Brown Scholarship  was established in 2006 by Susan E. Brown, parent of Clark
Ruppert '10. The scholarship is awarded to residents of Shelby County, Tennessee, with
demonstrated high ﬁnancial need who have a willingness to be engaged in activities at
Rhodes and who have potential for academic success.
The C. Whitney Brown Scholarship  was established by friends and family of the late C.
Whitney Brown to provide assistance to economically disadvantaged Shelby County
students, not otherwise able to attend Rhodes, sponsored by any Memphis organization
dedicated to improving the future of Memphis youths. Preference is given to Memphis
Boys Club/Girls Club members.
The Enoch Brown Scholarship , established by the late Mrs. Enoch Brown, Franklin,
Tennessee, in memory of her husband, is awarded to students from Shelby County or
Williamson County, Tennessee.
The Jean Brown Scholarship  was established through a bequest from the late Miss Jean
Brown of Hot Springs, Arkansas.
The L. Palmer Brown III Service Scholarship  was founded in 2004 by Axson and Bryan
Morgan in honor of L. Palmer Brown. This scholarship is awarded based on merit and
ﬁnancial need.Matters of Record https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/311
35 of 85 7/25/23, 12:56 PM
The Robert L. Brown Scholarship  was provided through the estate of alumnus Robert L.
Brown '35.
The S. Toof Brown Scholarship  was established by Whit Brown in memory of his father.
The W. C. Brown Memorial Scholarship  was established by the children of the late William
Clark Brown, Sr., Stamps, Arkansas.
The Bradley Brubaker '97 Endowed Scholarship  is intended for a student from
Memphis/Shelby County, preferably with ﬁnancial need, and a GPA of 3.0 or higher.
The John H. Bryan Scholarship  was established during his lifetime by the late John H.
Bryan, Sr., West Point, Mississippi, founder of Bryan Foods.
The Louise and John Bryan  Fellowship for the Arts  was established in 2007 by trustee
John H. Bryan III '83 and his wife Louise. It provides support for  Arts programs that foster
leadership, vision, communications and innovation for future leaders in the ﬁne arts.
The Annie Rose and Leslie H. Buchman Scholarship  was established by Southern
Fabricators, Inc., Mr. Paul Isbell, and the late Mrs. Buchman of Memphis.
The Mertie W. Buckman International Scholarships for Women  are awarded annually to
deserving junior and senior students with ﬁnancial need to participate in Rhodes-
sponsored programs abroad or in Rhodes' exchange programs. Preference is given to
women students.
The Robert Buckman Scholarships for Study Abroad  were established in 2003 by Rhodes
trustee Robert H. Buckman and his wife Joyce Mollerup to enable qualiﬁed students to
study abroad, either for a semester or for a complete academic year, and to then
participate in the development of international awareness at Rhodes upon their return.
Buckman Scholars must have completed at least two semesters at Rhodes at the time of
the award and preference will be given to juniors or rising juniors. Demonstrated ﬁnancial
need may be a consideration in the granting of these scholarships. These scholarships
are not available to students applying for summer program study. For more information,
contact the Buckman Center for International Programs.
The Stanley Joseph and Mertie Willigar Buckman Scholarship  was established by the late
Mrs. Buckman to support students with need.
The Buntyn Presbyterian Church Scholarship  was established to provide assistance to a
student from Tennessee.
The Chloe Malone Burch Service Scholarship  was created in 2010 through her estate. It
provides ﬁnancial aid for deserving students who have demonstrated experience in and
commitment to community service.Matters of Record https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/311
36 of 85 7/25/23, 12:56 PM
The Mary Ross Burkhart Scholarship  was established in 2013 by Pedie Pedersen '70 to
honor former Rhodes Professor Mary Ross “Tara” Burkhart.
The Catherine W. Burrow Scholarship  was established by the late Mrs. Burrow of
Memphis.
The Kathryn Brown Butler Emergency Assistance Fund  was established in 2011 by The
Kathryn Brown Butler Family Foundation. It provides emergency aid beyond the normal
ﬁnancial aid to students who are active and successful members of the Rhodes
community and demonstrate a need for emergency assistance.
The Betty Calandruccio Scholarship , established by Mrs. Calandruccio in memory of Dr.
Peyton Nalle Rhodes, President Emeritus of the college, provides ﬁnancial aid with
preference given to female students who demonstrate ﬁnancial need.
The Anne S. Caldwell '51 Business Fellowship  is intended for juniors and seniors with an
academic major in business and/or economics.
The Samuel Craighead Caldwell Memorial Scholarship  was established by First
Presbyterian Church, Hazlehurst, Mississippi.
The Cardwell Family Scholarship was set up by the Cardwell Family to support the
ﬁnancial aid needs of Rhodes students.
The Wheeler Carleton Scholarship  was established in 1947 by the Women of the Church
of the Synod of Alabama. Preference is given to a Presbyterian student from Alabama.
The Dr. and Mrs. Herbert V. Carson Scholarship  was established by Mr. and Mrs. Herbert
V. Carson, Jr. of Houston in memory of his parents.
The Katherine Carter Service Scholarship  was established in 2006 by Thomas L. Carter,
Jr. and Eugenia Graves Carter, parents of Katherine '05. It is awarded to students who
demonstrate ﬁnancial need as well as experience with and commitment to community
service.
The Christine Barham Caruthers Service Scholarship  was established in 2006 through the
estate of Christine Barham Caruthers. It is awarded to students who demonstrate
experience in and commitment to community service.
The Fay Rye Caudle  Scholarship for the Arts  was established by Scott Rye '83 and Ruth
Metcalfe Rye '84 in 2007. It provides support for Arts programs that  foster leadership,
vision, communications and innovation for future leaders in the ﬁne arts.
The CBJR Foundation Emergency Assistance Fund  was provided in 2013 by the CBJR
Foundation to provide support to students who ﬁnd themselves in emergency ﬁnancialMatters of Record https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/311
37 of 85 7/25/23, 12:56 PM
need.
The Walter Chandler Scholarship  was established by citizens of Memphis in honor of the
former mayor of Memphis.
The Chapman Service Scholarship  was established in 2005 by Christopher J. Chapman
and Mary Beth Blackwell-Chapman, parents of Molly '05. It provides ﬁnancial aid for
deserving students who have demonstrated ﬁnancial need as well as experience with and
commitment to community service.
The Alice S. Christenson Scholarship  was created in her honor by her son, Gray Stevens
'82 and his wife Allison. It beneﬁts students of high academic ability with demonstrated
ﬁnancial need. Preference is given to students from Alabama.
The Anna Marie Clark '12 Fellowship  was established in 2012 by Ed Clark P'12 in honor of
his daughter. The scholarship will provide support for one student's four years at Rhodes,
provided s/he maintains satisfactory grades, carries a full-time course load, and takes
advantage of at least one beyond-the-classroom learning opportunity that furthers his/her
academic or career interests.
The Class of 1950 Scholarship  was provided by alumni of the Class of 1950 in honor of
their 50th Class Reunion in October, 2000.
The John Colby Service Scholarship  was established in Barry Johnson '83 and Susanna
Johnson in 2007 to support students with demonstrated ﬁnancial need and commitment to
community service and leadership.
The Jefferson K. Cole Scholarship  was established by the late Mrs. Anna P. Cole of
Memphis in memory of her husband.
The Elizabeth Williams Cooper '30 Scholarship  was established by the late Mr. and Mrs.
A. B. Cooper of Nashville in appreciation of the education that Rhodes provided Mrs.
Cooper.
The James Leonard Cooper Scholarship  was established by his late daughter, Miss Lula
W. Cooper.
The Mrs. John S. Cooper Memorial Scholarship  was established by Mr. Douglas Johnston
of Memphis in memory of his mother.
The John Franklin Copper '75 Award for Excellence in the Study of Asia was established
by retired Rhodes professor and alumnus John F. Copper '75.   The award honors a
student who has embraced the challenging and rigorous curriculum of the International
Studies Department.Matters of Record https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/311
38 of 85 7/25/23, 12:56 PM
The Cotham Family Scholarship was established to provide support for a dedicated,
involved student.
The John H. '57 and Patricia Crabtree Endowed Scholarship is awarded to a student with
ﬁnancial need.
The Robert Emmet Craig Scholarship  was established by his late wife, Mrs. Robert E.
Craig, and his daughters, Mrs. Amelia Craig Lane and Mrs. Samuel Sanders III, New
Orleans, Louisiana.
The Serena Crawford Scholarship for Women  was initiated by alumnae Sallie Brooks
Clark '76, Donna Kay Fisher '71, Katherine Maddox McElroy '77, Carol Ellis Morgan '76,
and Sara Jeannette Sims '76 in memory of their friend Serena '75. It provides assistance
to women students with ﬁnancial need.
The Jere Lawrence Crook, Jr. Scholarship  was established by a generous gift of the late
Mr. Crook, prominent Memphis real estate developer, world traveler and civic leader.
Preference is given to international students.
The Patsy Braswell Culverhouse '54 Scholarship  was created in her memory by her
husband Cecil Culverhouse and their sons Ian and Rob. The scholarship beneﬁts a young
woman who would not be able to attend Rhodes without ﬁnancial aid.
The Curran-Lydick Scholarship  was established in 2013 by Chrissy and Walter Lydick ’68
.The scholarship is designed to challenge and graduate talented students from middle
income families.
The James and Elizabeth Daughdrill Scholarship  was established in 2014 by Robert H.
Buckman and Joyce A. Mollerup. The scholarship will be awarded to a worthy student with
need who has overcome signiﬁcant obstacles on their path college.
The Ellen Davies-Rodgers Scholarshi p in Early Elementary Education was established by
the late Dr. Ellen Davies-Rodgers. This scholarship is presented to an outstanding student
with special interest in early elementary education.
The Dan W. Davis Service Scholarship  was provided in 2005 through the estate of Dan W.
Davis of Memphis. It provides ﬁnancial aid for deserving students who have demonstrated
experience and commitment to community service.
The Jefferson Davis Scholarship  was established by the late Jefferson Davis and his
widow, Jerdone, of Atlanta, Georgia, both alumni of the college, classes of 1931 and 1934.
Mr. Davis served for many years as a member of the Board of Trustees.
The Davison Scholarship  was established by Mr. W. F. Davison, Misses Ethel and Marjory
Davison, and Mrs. J. D. Crosby in memory of their parents. Preference is given to qualiﬁedMatters of Record https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/311
39 of 85 7/25/23, 12:56 PM
students from the area formerly known as the Synod of Alabama.
The Mary Robertson Day Scholarship  was established by the Watauga Chapter of
Daughters of the American Revolution.
The A. Clark and Mary Cooper Dean Scholarship  was established in 1992 to assist
deserving students in receiving a liberal arts education.
The Dickson Family Scholarship  is provided by the late Dr. Bonnie Adair Dickson, the late
Frederick L. Dickson, Jr. '38 and the late Elizabeth Blue Dickson '39.
The Charles E. Diehl Scholarship  was established from the estates of Mrs. Lula Reese
and Erma Reese Solomon.
The Charles I. Diehl Scholarship  was endowed by a bequest from Charles I. Diehl '31,
who served as Dean of Men and Professor of Education for the college. It is awarded to a
deserving student with demonstrated ﬁnancial need.
The Diehl Scholarship in Voice  was established in memory of Mrs. Christiana Nolte Diehl
and Mrs. Katherine Ireys Diehl by members of the Diehl family and friends. This
scholarship is awarded to a student majoring in voice based on academic achievement.
The Katherine Ireys Diehl and Mary Pond Diehl Memorial Scholarship  was established at
Rhodes and supported through the generosity of Katherine  Diehl's son, the late Mr.
Charles I. Diehl, and the Association of Rhodes Women.
The Christina Zengel Dinkelacker Memorial Scholarship  was funded by family and friends
of Christina '70. The scholarship goes to a deserving female student to enable her to study
abroad with preference for programs in art, languages, and literature.
The Hugo Dixon Scholarship  was established through a gift from the George H.
McFadden and Bro. Fund of Memphis in memory of Mr. Dixon who was Chairman of the
Board of Valmac Industries, patron of the arts in Memphis and the Mid-South, and
business and civic leader.
The Elizabeth Rodgers Dobell Scholarship  was established through contributions from
family members and friends in memory of Elizabeth Dobell '58.
The F. Elaine Donelson '59 Fellowship in Psychology  allows the department chair to
create a fellowship in Psychology.
The Janice Ost Donelson Scholarship  was created by family and friends in 2010 to honor
the late wife of Dr. Lewis Donelson '38.
The Joseph A. Dunglinson Scholarship  was established by the First Presbyterian ChurchMatters of Record https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/311
40 of 85 7/25/23, 12:56 PM
of Selma, Alabama, in honor of its minister.
The Dufour Endowed Scholarship  is intended for students with demonstrated ﬁnancial
need. Recipients will have achieved the rank of Eagle Scout, or have demonstrated all of
the following: participation in a service organization for at least three years and have had a
leadership position within that organization, responsibility for completion of an impactful
service project for which the candidates have demonstrated leadership in planning,
coordination, and completion of the project. Recipients will demonstrate trustworthiness,
kindness, and courage and show respect and reverence for matters of religious faith.
The Paul and Frances Durff Scholarship  was provided by Judith Simono Durff '66 and
Thomas H. Durff '65 to honor his parents. The scholarship is awarded to students with
need from a Memphis public school.
The David Burns and Blanche Butler Earhart Scholarship  was established by Mrs.
Blanche Butler Earhart of Memphis.
The John A. Edmiston, Jr. Scholarship  was established by his parents, Mr. and Mrs. John
A. Edmiston, Sr.
The J. S. and Capitola Edmondson Scholarship  was established by the late Mr. and Mrs.
J. S. Edmondson of Memphis to aid worthy students.
The John Farley Scholarship  was established in 1990 upon his death by the family and
friends of John Farley '37, a noted lawyer in New York.
The Anna and Jack D. Farris Scholarship  was created by alumni couple Mark '82 and
Elizabeth Sheppard '84 Hurley. It honors Anna Farris, former Associate Dean of the British
Studies at Oxford Program at Rhodes, and the late Jack Farris, Professor Emeritus of
English.
The Do Ann Johnson Falk ’67 and Canon Thomas Hall ’67 Scholarship was established
by Meg and Scott Crosby in 2013 to honor Meg’s aunts at their 50th Reunion. The
scholarship recipients will be chosen by the Dean of Admission and Financial aid, with
preference given to students who provide evidence that they would thrive in the Rhodes
Environment.
The Joseph Peyton Faulk Memorial Fund  was established by Robert W. Faulk in memory
of his father to aid worthy students with need from Tipton County, Tennessee, who are
pursuing a full-time course of study leading to a bachelors degree.
The Federal Express Scholarship  was established by FedEx Corporation.
The Nancy Tanner & James Rodney Feild Scholarship  was established by J. Rodney
Feild. Preference is given to pre-medical students with need who serve in a hospital orMatters of Record https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/311
41 of 85 7/25/23, 12:56 PM
clinic treating private patients.
The Files Sisters Memorial Scholarship  was established by the late Miss R. M. Files,
Shreveport, Louisiana.
The James O. Finley '26 Family Scholarship , created by Dr. James G. Finley '62 and his
wife Mary Lou Carwile Finley '64, provides ﬁnancial aid with preference for students from
Middle Tennessee.
The First Presbyterian Church Memorial Scholarship  was established by the First
Presbyterian Church of Gallatin, Tennessee.
The Josie Millsaps Fitzhugh Scholarship  was established by The Josephine Circle of
Memphis, in honor of its founder, the late Mrs. Gutson T. Fitzhugh, Memphis.
The Sarah Mackenzie Flemister and Robert C. Flemister, Jr. Scholarship  was established
by the late Mr. and Mrs. Robert C. Flemister, Jr. '26 of Birmingham, Alabama, for
deserving students with need.
The Amy and Cary Fowler Crossroads Fellowship  was established in 2014. Students will
collect and catalog historically important source materials which chronicle various aspects
of the Civil Rights movement in the Memphis area.
The Steve and Riea Lainoff Crop Trust Fellowship in Honor of Cary Fowler   was
established in 2012 by trustee Steve Lainoff and his wife, Riea. This fellowship will be
awarded to a senior to work for the Global Crop Diversity Trust for at least one year
following graduation from Rhodes College.
The Joseph A. and Morgan C. Fowler Scholarship Fund  was established in 1957 with a
gift from the Freemasons. Since then, the scholarship has grown through the generosity of
the Lillian Goldman Charitable Trust, Cary Fowler '71, and Amy Goldman Fowler. The
scholarship honors Cary's parents, and is awarded each year to a worthy student.
The Edgar Wiggin Francisco Scholarship  and  The Ruth Bitzer Francisco Scholarship  were
established by Dr. Edgar Wiggin Francisco, III '52 in honor of his father and mother.
The Fraser Lagniappe Scholarship Fund  provides scholarship assistance to a
nontraditional age student with ﬁnancial need.
The Freeburg Scholarship for Memphis Students was established through a gift from the
estate of Catherine M. Freeburg '40 and her husband Charles Freeburg '39.  As lifelong,
dedicated Memphians, Mr. and Mrs. Freeburg established the scholarship to support the
ﬁnancial aid needs of Memphis students.
The John Chester Frist Memorial Scholarship  was created by his brother, the late Dr.Matters of Record https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/311
42 of 85 7/25/23, 12:56 PM
Thomas C. Frist, Sr. '28, a Rhodes trustee. John was a leader in many areas of campus
life. He was a minister and leader in the Presbyterian Church until his death in 1959.
The Jennie Puryear Gardner Scholarship  was established in 2007 by Mildred Puryear
Marshall in honor of her sister, Jennie Puryear Gardner '31. Preference is given to women
from the South with an interest in writing or literature.
The T.M. Garrott, Jr. and Lina H. Garrott Scholarship  was created through their estates to
assist deserving students from Mississippi selected on the basis of academic promise and
ability. Their son, Rhodes trustee Thomas M. Garrott, III has increased the value of the
Garrott Scholarship through additional gifts.
The Robert L. Gay Service Scholarship  was provided in 2005 through the estate of
alumnus Robert L. Gay '62. It provides ﬁnancial aid for deserving students who have
demonstrated experience and commitment to community service.
The Mary Snowden Treadwell Gee and Elisha Gee Scholarship , established in Mr. Gee's
memory by Mrs. Gee during her lifetime, recognizes the many outstanding Rhodes
College students who worked for Mr. Gee. The scholarship is awarded to students with
need.
The Georgia Scholarships , endowed by an anonymous foundation, provide assistance to
students with recognized leadership potential from middle-income Georgia families.
Preference is given to members of the Christian faith.
The German Study Abroad Fellowship  was established by an anonymous alumnus in
2008 to encourage students to adopt a minor or major in German and to learn the German
culture. It is awarded to students who wish to study abroad in Germany and have
demonstrated ﬁnancial need.
The A. Benson Gilmore Memorial Service Scholarship  was created by Rhodes trustee
Vicki Gilmore Palmer '75 in honor of Dr. and Mrs. James H. Daughdrill, Jr., President
Emeritus of the college and his wife, and in memory of Ms. Palmer's mother. It beneﬁts
minority students with ﬁnancial need who have demonstrated experience in and
commitment to community service.
The Sally Pettus Gold Scholarship  was established by Dr. Edward A. Mohns of Portland,
Oregon.
The Goldsmith Family Scholarship  was established through a gift from the Goldsmith
Foundation in memory of Jacob and Dora Goldsmith.
The C. M. Gooch Scholarships  were established by the will of Mr. C. M. Gooch, prominent
Mid-South lumberman and businessman.Matters of Record https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/311
43 of 85 7/25/23, 12:56 PM
The Abe Goodman Memorial Scholarship  was established by his sons, Charles, Abe, and
William Goodman, Memphis.
The Dan F. Goodwin, Jr. Scholarship  was given in honor of Dan F. Goodwin, Jr., member
of Rhodes Board of Trustees for eight years. Preference is given to children of ministers
from the states of Louisiana and Texas and selection is based primarily on ﬁnancial need.
The Margaret Gorman Scholarship  was established by John F. Gratz, Jr., of Memphis, to
be given annually to that student who, in the judgment of the faculty of the Music
Department, presents the greatest proﬁciency in the understanding and performance of
the classical and romantic periods of music on the piano or to a deserving student
majoring in music composition
The Lorle and Neely Grant Scholarship  was established by Lorle Grant, whose late
husband, Neely, was a member of Rhodes Class of 1946. The scholarship is awarded to
minority students with need.
The Fred R. Graves Scholarship  was established by friends of the late Dr. Graves,
longtime Presbyterian minister in Mississippi, and by Mr. and Mrs. Jere B. Nash, Jr., of
Greenville, Mississippi. Income from the Fund is awarded each year on the basis of need
and merit.
The Michael Grehl Scholarship  was established in his memory by his late wife, Audrey,
Scripps-Howard, family, and friends, to support deserving returning students who have
ﬁnancial need beyond the college’s ﬁnancial aid package. Mr. Grehl was Editor of The
Commercial Appeal, a Scripps-Howard newspaper.
The Hans and Frances Groenhoff Scholarship for Art and Art History Majors  was
established in memory of the world-famous photographer by his wife, the late Fran
Groenhoff, and their friends. Recipients are limited to those students majoring in Art or Art
History.
The Charles E. Guice Scholarship  was established by members of the J.J. White
Memorial Church and the Presbytery of South Mississippi.
The A. Arthur Halle Memorial Scholarship  was established by trustees of the A. Arthur
Halle Memorial Foundation, Memphis.
The James Hamilton Memorial Political Science Scholarship  was established in his
memory by gifts from Olivia Meyer Browne and is awarded to a deserving student.
The Rhonda and Mark Hammond ’79 Scholarship  was created by Rhonda and Mark
Hammond ’79 to support underrepresented populations in need of ﬁnancial assistance
with tuition and expenses.Matters of Record https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/311
44 of 85 7/25/23, 12:56 PM
The Hammond-Moore Scholarships  were established by the late Mark B. Hammond, '39
and R. M. Hammond, Jr. in memory of their father, R. M. Hammond, and Dr. Moore
Moore, both of Memphis.
The Frank Hardie '02 Scholarship was established in his memory by Elaine Montgomery,
Frank's family and friends to support students with ﬁnancial need who are well-rounded
and who share Frank's passion for learning, compassion for others, and effective
leadership.
The Dorothy Seymour Harnden Scholarship  was established by the late Robert C.
Harnden of Memphis in memory of his wife.
The Ethel Ashton Harrell '54 Scholarship , established by Dr. Harrell, gives preference to
female students with documented ﬁnancial need.
The W. Edwin Harris Scholarship was established through a gift from the estate of W.
Edwin Harris.   Originally from Wynne, Arkansas, Mr. Harris settled in Memphis following
his retirement.  He left a legacy of support for higher education in Memphis, including
Rhodes.
The Hassell Scholarship  was provided through the estate of Pauline Hassell Nicholson to
assist students from or near Wayne County, Tennessee.
The Rev. Robin R. and Daniel B. Hatzenbuehler Summer Ministry Fellowship for Social
Justice  was established in 2010 by this alumni couple of the class of 1971. It is awarded
by competitive application in which students describe their interest and past involvement
in ministry and social justice, as well as their aspirations for the impact of the fellowship
and a proposed placement or project.
The William Randolph Hearst Scholarship , created by the William Randolph Hearst
Foundation of New York, provides assistance to African-American students.
The Frank H. Heiss Scholarship Fund , established by the New York City law ﬁrm of Kelley
Drye & Warren in memory of its distinguished law partner and 1928 alumnus of Rhodes, is
supported by his daughter.
The Imelda and Hubert Henkel Scholarship  was created in their memory by their four
children, all of whom are Rhodes graduates: Mike '79 and Frances '79 Henkel, Tim Henkel
'81, Keith '83 and Linda '83 Henkel, and Michelle Henkel '86.
The Henley International Student Scholarship  was created by Elizabeth and Robert
Henley to support the needs of international students attending Rhodes.  
The J. D. and Evelyn Henry Scholarship  was established by the late Mr. J. D. Henry,
Selma, Alabama, in grateful and loving memory of the family. His wife, the late EvelynMatters of Record https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/311
45 of 85 7/25/23, 12:56 PM
Henry, also provided support for this scholarship.
The Francis G. Hickman Scholarship  was established by Edwyna Hickman, of Memphis,
as a memorial to her husband. Preference is given to a student majoring, or intending to
major, in the Department of Anthropology/Sociology.
The Harold “Chicken” High Scholarship  honors this outstanding 1933 graduate of Rhodes
and is funded by John S. and Tan Heslip Hille, '69, '69. Preference is given to an
outstanding member of Pi Kappa Alpha.
The Chick and Andi Hill Service Fellowship  was created in 2007 to provide aid to a
student from Memphis with demonstrated ﬁnancial need and commitment to community
service and leadership.
The Beth Bevill Hollingsworth Scholarship  was established by her sons Cyril E.
Hollingsworth '64 and Donald M. Hollingsworth '67 of Little Rock, Arkansas. Preference is
given to a student with need.
The David Wills Hollingsworth Scholarship  was established by The First Presbyterian
Church, Florence, Alabama, to honor the memory of their longtime minister. Scholarships
are awarded on the basis of ﬁnancial need, with preference to students from Alabama.
The Emily How Holloway Scholarship  was established in her memory by her husband, the
late E. Thompson Holloway, Sr. '33, and children Emily H. Walker '64, and E. Thompson
Holloway, Jr.
The James Elmore Holmes, M.D. and Ida Lester Scruggs Holmes Scholarship  is awarded
to ﬁrst-generation students from either Mississippi or Tennessee, with demonstrated
ﬁnancial need and a GPA of 3.0 or higher.
The Elizabeth Hart and Horace King Houston Memorial Scholarship  was established by
the Reverend Horace K. Houston, Jr. This scholarship is given to an active member of a
Presbyterian Church who is a resident of Essex County, New Jersey; Washington County,
Mississippi; or Shelby County, Tennessee.
The Gabriel and Mattie Houston Scholarship  was established in 1955 by the late Mrs.
Houston of Oxford, Mississippi.
The Margaret Mason Jones Houts and J. Thayer “Toto” Houts Scholarship  was
established by the late Mr. J. Thayer Houts '37 and his late wife, Mrs. Margaret Mason
Jones Houts '40 of Memphis.
The Dave and Amy Howe Endowed Scholarship  was established in 2016 by Amy and
Dave Howe '83 P'19. This scholarship is awarded to students with ﬁnancial need and
selected on the basis of academic achievement and promise.Matters of Record https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/311
46 of 85 7/25/23, 12:56 PM
The Elizabeth J. Howard Scholarship  was established by T. C. Howard of Covington,
Tennessee, in 1937.
The S. Francis Howard Scholarship  was established in 1979 by an anonymous donor in
memory of Mr. S. Francis Howard '26.
The Thomas Percy Howard, Jr. Memorial Scholarship  was established by members of the
First Presbyterian Church of Tunica, Mississippi.
The John C. Hugon Scholarship  was established by the late John C. Hugon '77 of
Duncan, Oklahoma, during his lifetime to provide ﬁnancial assistance to deserving
students, perhaps in addition to that normally provided by the college. Additional funding
was provided by McCasland Foundation, as well as family and friends.
The Hunt Senior Endowed Scholarship  is awarded to a senior with demonstrated need,
who carries a full-time class load and who is on track to graduate at the end of their senior
year. 
The Joanne E. Hunt Memorial Scholarship  was established by Mr. and Mrs. George B.
Jones in memory of Mrs. Jones' daughter, an alumna of Rhodes, Class of 1960.
The Kristin D. and Vernon S. Hurst Scholarship for European Studies , established by
alumna Kristin Dwelle Hurst '88 and her husband Vernon, provides aid for a Rhodes
student participating in European Studies.
The Margaret Hyde Council International Scholarship for Women  was established by the
members of the Margaret Hyde Council to aid students in study abroad opportunities. It is
also supported by alumnae and friends of Rhodes. Preference is given to women
students.
The Margaret Hyde Leadership Scholarship  was created by Margaret Hyde Council board
members Theresa Cloys Carl '75, Susan Logan Huffman '83, and Joellyn Forrester
Sullivan '77. It gives preference to upperclass women who have demonstrated leadership
in campus organizations, community service, or academics.
The Wendy and Bill Jacoway Scholarship  was created by alumnus William H. Jacoway '62
and his wife Wendy.
The Sarah Elizabeth Farris and Thomas Francis Jackson Scholarship  was established by
Mrs. Elizabeth Jackson Hall and her son, T. Francis Jackson, III '62.
The Reverend William Nathan Jenkins Scholarship  was established by his wife, the late
Pearl C. Jenkins and his daughter, Miss Annie Tait Jenkins of Crystal Springs, Mississippi,
to honor Mr. Jenkins, a Presbyterian minister and a member of Rhodes Class of 1895.Matters of Record https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/311
47 of 85 7/25/23, 12:56 PM
The Jane and J. L. Jerden Service Scholarship  was established by Jane and J. L. Jerden
'59 of Atlanta, Georgia. It provides aid to students who have demonstrated experience in
and commitment to community service.
The Johnson Family Scholarship , created by alumnus Barry Johnson '83 and his wife
Susanna Johnson, gives preference for aid to a student who exhibits an interest in
religious studies as a major or entering full-time Christian ministry following graduation.
The George R. Johnson Service Scholarship , was created by Susanna Johnson in 2005
as a gift to her husband, Barry D. Johnson '83, to honor his father who dedicated his life to
serving others. The scholarship provides aid to students who have demonstrated
experience in and commitment to community service.
The Marshall P. Jones '59 Scholarship , funded through a bequest from Lawrence & Carrie
Jaseph, honors their late son-in-law and Rhodes Professor Emeritus. It is awarded to a
student with ﬁnancial need with preference given to a minority student. Mr. Jones’ widow,
Lynn Jaseph Jones '59, also provides support for this scholarship.
The Paul Tudor Jones, M.D., Scholarship  and  The Annie M. Smith Jones
Scholarship  were established by the Jones family in memory of their parents.
The Walk C. Jones, Jr. Scholarship  was established by Mrs. Walk C. Jones, Jr. of
Memphis.
The Paul Tudor Jones III and Sara Shelton Jones Scholarship  was established to honor
the memory of his parents by the estate of the late Paul Tudor Jones IV '32, life trustee.
Primary emphasis for selection of the recipients is based upon the student’s genuine
religious nature and integrity of character.
The Henry M. and Lena Meyer Kahn Scholarship  was created through the will of Jacob M.
Meyer of Memphis.
The Estes Kefauver Memorial Scholarships  were endowed by friends of Senator Kefauver,
United States Representative, 1938-1948, and United States Senator, 1949-1963.
The Edward B. Klewer Scholarship  was established by Dorothy Hughes Klewer in memory
of her husband.
The Hope Brewster Krushkov Memorial Scholarship in Music , created by her daughter
Marli Krushkova, is awarded to a student in music.
The Riea and Steve Lainoff Fellowship  was established in 2010 by trustee Steve Lainoff
and his wife Riea. It is awarded annually to ten or more students through a competitive
application process which includes a brief discussion of how the proposed domestic or
international fellowship will advance the student’s experiential learning. Preference isMatters of Record https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/311
48 of 85 7/25/23, 12:56 PM
given to juniors and seniors with at least two fellowships reserved for each of the Theatre
and English Departments.
The Joseph S. Legg Memorial Service Scholarship  was established in 2005 by Rhodes
trustee Deborah Legg Craddock '80 and Robert E. Craddock, Jr. It provides ﬁnancial aid
for deserving students who have demonstrated ﬁnancial need as well as experience with
and commitment to community service.
The Edward B. and Elizabeth LeMaster Scholarship  was provided in memory of her
parents by trustee Elizabeth LeMaster Simpson '58 and her late husband David L.
Simpson, III '58. It is awarded annually to students with ﬁnancial need to participate in
Rhodes-sponsored European Studies, in Rhodes' exchange programs, or approved
programs in the U.S.
The Jackie & Herbert S. Liebman and Marjorie Liebman Scholarship  was given by the
Liebmans to provide aid for a student from Shelby County with ﬁnancial need.
The Herbert Linville Scholarship  was established by class of 1950 alumni Herbert Linville
to support students deserving Rhodes students.
The Cornelia Loper Lipscomb Music Scholarship  was established by Edward L. Lipscomb
of Memphis, father of Nell Lipscomb Martin and alumnae Martha Lipscomb Whitla '57 and
Lynda Lipscomb Wexler '60, in memory of his wife and their mother. Preference is given to
a female music student from a Southern state.
The Edward H. Little Endowed Scholarship  was provided by the E. H. Little Trust.
The Mahoney Family Student Emergency Assistance Fund  was established in 2009 by
Wendi and Robert Mahoney, parents of Alex Mahoney '08 and Nate Mahoney '11, to be
awarded in the event of ﬁnancial crisis to students who are active and successful
members of the Rhodes community and who demonstrate a need for emergency
assistance as determined and selected by college committee.
The Robert Mann '47 Scholarship  was provided through a bequest to provide ﬁnancial aid
for music students.
The James J. and Ada Manson Memorial Scholarship  was established by their daughter,
the late Lucille Manson Tate of New Orleans, and the First Presbyterian Church of New
Orleans.
The Roma and Jeff A. Marmon, Jr. Memorial Scholarships  were established by Mr. and
Mrs. George Mallouk of Garden City, New York, and other friends and relatives. He was a
member of the Class of 1939.
The Edward C. Martin, Jr. Scholarship  was funded through the estate of Mr. Martin '41. ItMatters of Record https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/311
49 of 85 7/25/23, 12:56 PM
is awarded to deserving students with ﬁnancial need.
The Ireys Martin Scholarship , established by the Association of Rhodes Women, is
awarded to a qualiﬁed female student.
The Lina Matthews Service Scholarship  was established in 2006 through the estate of
Lina Matthews. Preference is given to Presbyterian students studying for ministry or other
work in the church and who have demonstrated experience in and commitment to
community service.
The Mona Rice Matthews Fellowship for the Arts  was funded by the estate of Mona Rice
Matthews in 2007. It provides support for Arts programs  that foster leadership, vision,
communications and innovation for future leaders in the ﬁne arts.
The Maxwell Family Scholarship  was established in memory of Mr. and Mrs. J. B. Maxwell
of Dyersburg, Tennessee, by members of their family. Preference is given to students from
Dyersburg or West Tennessee.
The May Scholarship  of Second Presbyterian Church of Little Rock, Arkansas, is provided
through the proceeds of the Ruth May Gibb Trust as administered by Second Presbyterian
Church, Little Rock, Arkansas. Preference is given to Arkansas students, with
consideration given to ﬁnancial need, academic achievement, and educational goals of
the student.
The Carolyn McAfee Annual Fine Arts Fellowship , established by Carolyn T. McAfee in
2008, is awarded to a student with talent or interest in the ﬁne arts, with a preference for
music. Preference is given to students from West Tennessee.
The Robert D. McCallum Scholarship  was created in honor of the late Robert D.
McCallum, life trustee of Rhodes, by his friend Julian Robertson. Preference is given to
students with partial ﬁnancial need, and awarded on the basis of the students'  high ethical
values, leadership ability, and academic performance. The purpose of the scholarships is
to enable middle-income students who meet these criteria to get a Rhodes education.
The Virginia and Jett McCallum Scholarship  was established by her husband Robert D.
McCallum to support students studying the Fine Arts, including the study of paintings,
drawings, etchings, and sculpture, but not including the study of commercial art.
The Gail McClay Scholarship  was established in her memory by family, colleagues, and
former students. Gail McClay was Associate Professor and Chair of the Education
Department until her death in 1999. The scholarship beneﬁts students in education with
demonstrated ﬁnancial need.
The William E. McClure '51 Service Scholarship  was funded through the estate of William
E. McClure '51. The scholarship is awarded to students who commit to performing tenMatters of Record https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/311
50 of 85 7/25/23, 12:56 PM
hours of community service weekly.
The William '51 and Helen '51 McClure Study Abroad Fellowship  was created in 2010 to
honor her late parents by Dr.Catherine McClure Leslie and the Helen and William McClure
Family Fund at the Community Foundation of Greater Memphis. It provides for assistance
to an upperclass student majoring in commerce and business to study abroad in a
Rhodes-approved program.
The Anna Leigh McCorkle Work Study Scholarship  was established by her family and
friends to provide on-campus employment of students.
The McCoy Service Scholarship  was founded in 2004 by the McCoy Foundation.
The Seth and Mary Ann McGaughran Scholarship for Creative Writing,  established by Mr.
and Mrs. McGaughran, is awarded to a deserving student with interest and ability in
creative writing and who resides within 150 miles of Memphis.
The McGehee Scholarship  was established by James E. McGehee & Company, Memphis.
Priority is given to residents of Shelby County. Achievement, rather than need, is the
principal consideration.
The John H. McMinn Scholarship  was established by alumnus John H. McMinn III '68 of
Miami, Florida.
The Phillip H. McNeill Family Scholarship  was established in 2005 by Rhodes trustee
Phillip H. McNeill and Mabel McCall McNeill, parents of Hallie McNeill Ward '96. The
scholarship provides opportunities to outstanding students who demonstrate strength of
character and commitment to their faith through leadership and involvement in community,
church, or school.
The Louise Howry McRae Fine Arts Scholarship  was established in 2005 through the
estates of Louise Howry McRae '43 and Robert McRae of Memphis. It provides ﬁnancial
aid for deserving students who are majoring in the ﬁne arts and who have demonstrated
experience and commitment to community service.
The David McWilliams '78 Endowed Scholarship  was established in his memory by his
family and friends and is used for general ﬁnancial aid, with no restrictions.
The Hilda Menke Scholarship  was established by Milton and Elizabeth Picard and by
Hubert and Stella Menke in memory of Mr. Menke's mother. The recipient is a deserving
student from the Mid-South area.
The Frances Jeter Michaelcheck Scholarship Program  established in 2015 by William J.
Michaelcheck '69 in honor of his mother seeks to enroll, challenge and graduate students
who can contribute and take full advantage of Rhodes. Preference given to students fromMatters of Record https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/311
51 of 85 7/25/23, 12:56 PM
Western Tennessee who demonstrate high ﬁnancial need, commitment to service and
leadership in their school or community, and have a willingness to work hard and learn
from difﬁcult circumstances.
The Evelyn G. Millsap '47 Service Scholarship  was created in 2005 through the estate of
alumni Evelyn G. Millsap. It provides ﬁnancial aid for deserving students who have
demonstrated experience and commitment to community service.
The Kimberley S. Millsaps Scholarship  was established by Mr. and Mrs. Kenneth E.
Millsaps, with their family and friends, in memory of their daughter Kimberley Millsaps '90
who was injured in a car accident during her senior year at Rhodes. The scholarship is
awarded annually to a rising senior who is a member of the Alpha Omicron Pi Sorority.
The Frank M. Mitchener, Sr. Scholarship  was established during their lifetimes by his
daughters, Frances M. Scott '33 and Mary Rose M. Wilds, and his wife, Mrs. Frank M.
Mitchener, Sr. of Sumner, Mississippi.
The Edward A. Mohns Scholarship  was endowed by the late Dr. Edward A. Mohns '24,
Portland, Oregon, and his family to give ﬁnancial support to students preparing for careers
in the ministry or medicine.
The Pamela Palmer Montesi Scholarship for the Arts  was a gift from Pamela Palmer
Montesi '80 and her husband, Frederick Thomas Montesi, III, and their two children,
Pamela Nicole Montesi and Frederick Thomas Montesi, IV '06 in honor of Pam's 25th
Class Reunion in 2005. The scholarship aids students who demonstrate a love of the arts,
regardless of academic major, with preference given to a student of music or the theatre.
Primary emphasis for the selection of the recipients is based upon the student’s genuine
religious nature and integrity of character.
The Lewis Matthew Moore Scholarship  was created in 1947 by Ethel Dean Moore in
memory of her son. Preference is given to a student from Alabama.
The Mayo Moore Scholarship  was established by the Tunica County Rotary Club.
TheDr. Moore Moore Scholarship  was established by Mrs. Houston N. Moore in honor of
her husband and Board of Trustee member Dr. Moore Moore Jr. ’29. The scholarship
helps support Rhodes students with ﬁnancial need.
The Virginia Lee Moore Scholarship , established by a Rhodes staff member in memory of
her mother, is awarded to students with need.
The Goodbar Morgan '31 Scholarship  was established in 2006 through the estate of Terry
Westbrook '66. Goodbar Morgan was Director of Alumni at Rhodes for 26 years prior to
serving as the college archivist in his “retirement.” He and Dr. Westbrook were both
members of Sigma Nu Fraternity and preference is given to the most qualiﬁed member ofMatters of Record https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/311
52 of 85 7/25/23, 12:56 PM
Sigma Nu Fraternity.
The William Insley Morris Memorial Scholarship  was established by his sister Rosanna
Morris '41. Mr. Morris served in the navy at various weather stations around the world.
The Norvelle Hammett and Adolphus B. Morton Scholarship  was established by their
daughter and son-in-law, Mr. and Mrs. A. D. Wilhelm, parents of alumnus Jack Wilhelm
'75.
The Murfree Service Scholarship  was established in 2005 by Rhodes trustee Katherine
Davis Murfree. It provides ﬁnancial aid for deserving students who have demonstrated
ﬁnancial need as well as experience with and commitment to community service.
The Sanford Alvin Myatt, M.D. Scholarship  was established by Mrs. Lewis J. Myatt of
Memphis in memory of her son, a member of the Class of 1966. Preference is given to a
junior or senior pre-medical student.
The Fred W. Neal Scholarship  was established by family and friends of the late Dr. Neal,
Professor Emeritus of Religious Studies.
The Hugh M. Neely Scholarships  were established by the late Mrs. Mary Sneed Neely,
Memphis.
The Joe Neville Scholarships  are sponsored by the Black Alumni Connection of the
Rhodes Alumni Association in honor of Joe Neville, who worked in the Rhodes Physical
Plant for 44 years. Mr. Neville was always there for Rhodes students with abiding
friendship, encouragement and inspiration. The scholarship provides support for the
emergency needs of minority students that exceed the college ﬁnancial aid package.
The T. Russell Nunan and Cora Clark Nunan Scholarship  was established in 2007 through
the estates of Dr. and Mrs. Nunan. Preference is given to a student who is a member of
the First Presbyterian Church of Greenville, Mississippi, or a student from Washington
County, Mississippi.
The William Lucian Oates Scholarship  was created in 1965 by the late Hugo N. Dixon of
Memphis.
The Edmund Orgill Scholarship  was established by his friends in recognition of his
outstanding church, civic, and educational services, and is awarded to students who have
given evidence of interest in and concern for governmental processes.
The Ortmann-Cox Memorial Scholarship  was established by the will of Bessie Cox
Ortmann.
The John A. and Ruth C. Osoinach Memorial Scholarship  was provided by the estate ofMatters of Record https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/311
53 of 85 7/25/23, 12:56 PM
Dr. Harrison Kirkland Osoinach '55 to support students of Native American ancestry or
other minorities.
The George Marion Painter Memorial Scholarship  was established by the First
Presbyterian Church of Gallatin, Tennessee, and by Mrs. George M. Painter of Gallatin
and Mrs. Priscilla Early of Memphis. Preference is given to students majoring in
commerce and business, mathematics, or public education.
The P. Thomas Parrish '79 Service Scholarship  was established in 2004 by his classmates
and friends.
The May Thompson Patton Music Scholarship  was established by Lynda Lipscomb
Wexler '60 to honor her mother-in-law and is awarded to a student majoring in music.
The Elizabeth Roe Pearce '91 International Study Fellowship  was established in 2008 by
Elizabeth Roe Pearce '91. This fellowship will be awarded to students participating in a
study abroad opportunity on the basis of demonstrated ﬁnancial need with a minimum
required grade point average of 2.75.
The Michael D. Pearigen '77 Endowed Scholarship  was established in 2022 and is used
for general ﬁnancial aid, with no restrictions.
The Bettye M. Pedersen Scholarship  was established by Martha I. Pedersen '70 in
memory of her mother. Preference is given to students with need who are from small
towns in Tennessee, have declared an art, music, or science major, and intend to teach at
some level.
The Israel H. Peres Scholarship  was established by the late Hardwig Peres, LL.D. of
Memphis, and friends of the late Israel H. Peres, former Chancellor in Memphis’ Chancery
Court. The scholarship is awarded to residents of Shelby County.
The Jason Turnbow Pettigrew '96 Memorial Scholarship  is awarded to a junior or senior
who embodies Jason's fervor for life. The scholarship helps the student pursue such
activities as travel abroad, mission work, or additional educational pursuits in conjunction
with their studies at Rhodes.
The Liz and Milton Picard Scholarship  was created through gifts from Elizabeth Tamm
Picard and her late husband.
The Mrs. Ruth C. Pickens Fellowship  was established in 2007 by trustee Robert R. Waller
and Sarah Pickens Waller '63 to support minority students who have potential for success
at Rhodes. They must demonstrate ﬁnancial need, show leadership potential and commit
to participation in campus and/or community outreach activities.
The Clarence E. Pigford Scholarship  was established by Mrs. Clarence E. Pigford ofMatters of Record https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/311
54 of 85 7/25/23, 12:56 PM
Jackson, Tennessee, to honor her husband who was a trustee of Rhodes College.
The Frances Pillow Memorial Fund  was established in memory of Frances Pillow '72 by
her family and friends. The fund is used to provide scholarships for Arkansas students.
The Olive Manson Pitcher Scholarship  was established in her memory by Elizabeth O.
Pagaud of New Orleans.
The Julia and Moses Plough Scholarships  were established by the late Mr. Abe Plough in
memory of his parents.
The William B. Powell Scholarship  was established by the Dixie Wax Paper Company of
Memphis. Preference is given to students connected with DIXICO, as the company is now
named, or to students from Canada.
The Mary Louise Pritchard '51 Scholarship  was given at her 50th Class Reunion by Mrs.
Pritchard in memory of Elizabeth Ann Pritchard and Patricia Barton Pritchard and in honor
of Mary Louise Crawford.
The Morton D. and Elsie Prouty Scholarship  was established by Mr. and Mrs. Morton D.
Prouty of Florence, Alabama. Mr. Prouty was a member of Rhodes Board of Trustees.
The Schuyler Harris Pryor Scholarship  was created by his mother, Mrs. Lutie Patton
Shaw.
The Lynn Elizabeth Pyeatt Memorial Scholarship  was established by her parents, Mr. and
Mrs. Wayne W. Pyeatt, Memphis, Tennessee; her grandmother, Mrs. Lillian Pyeatt,
Searcy, Arkansas; and by her friends. Income from the fund is awarded to women
students majoring in music who have been nominated for this award by the Music
Department and to a student majoring in mathematics.
The William C. “Razz” Rasberry '30 Scholarship  was established by Doris Rasberry Jones
'59 in honor of her father, Rhodes alumnus and life trustee. The scholarship is awarded to
students with ﬁnancial need.
The Red Shoes Service Scholarship  was established by an anonymous alumna in 2006. It
is awarded to students who demonstrate experience with and commitment to community
service and leadership.
The Lieutenant Russell E. Reeves, Jr. Scholarship  was established by his parents, Mrs.
Russell E. Reeves and the late Mr. Reeves, Memphis. The income from this fund assists a
worthy male student.
The Lorna Anderson Reimers Scholarship  was established through her bequest. She wasMatters of Record https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/311
55 of 85 7/25/23, 12:56 PM
a Rhodes trustee from Jackson, MS.
The Linda Williams Rhea Scholarship  was established by the late Herbert Rhea, Rhodes
trustee emeritus, during his lifetime in honor of his wife.
The Percy M. and Ramona R. Rhea Scholarship  was created in honor of his parents by
Rhodes trustee Randall R. Rhea '77. It beneﬁts students of high academic ability with
demonstrated ﬁnancial need.
The Margaret Johnson Ridolphi '63 Scholarship  was endowed by Meg and Scott Crosby in
2013 to honor Meg’s mother at her 50th Reunion. The scholarship is created to enroll,
challenge and graduate students who can contribute and take full advantage of Rhodes.
Matthew Rigdon ’02 International Study Abroad Scholarship  was funded in 2015 by alumni
Matthew Rigdon to provide resources to students that would otherwise not have the
opportunity for an international experience.
The Alice Archer Rhodes Scholarship  was established by the Association of Rhodes
Women. Preference is given to a qualiﬁed female student.
Rhodes Service Scholarships  are awarded to students who have demonstrated an
exceptional record of leadership and service participation in their communities and who
wish to become effective leaders who promote positive change in the world. They are
provided through an endowment established by the Robert and Ruby Priddy Charitable
Trust, Wichita, Texas.
The Rich Memorial International Scholarship , created by alumna Mary Jack Rich McCord
'51, provides aid for study abroad to students with demonstrated ﬁnancial need.
Preference is given to women students.
The Richardson  Scholarship for the Arts  was established by the late Kathleen Richardson
in 2007. It provides support for Arts programs that foster leadership, vision,
communications and innovation for future leaders in the ﬁne arts.
The Kathleen Richardson Scholarship  was provided in 2007 by the estate of Mrs.
Richardson of Memphis. The scholarship serves to aid students with demonstrated
ﬁnancial need.
The Eleanor Richmond and Jessie Richmond Hooper Scholarship  was established by
family and friends. Ms. Richmond was a member of the Class of 1927 and Ms. Hooper the
Class of 1935.
The Dr. and Mrs. F. Ray Riddle, Jr.  Scholarship  for the Arts was established by F. Ray
Riddle, Jr. in 2007. It provides support for Arts programs that  foster leadership, vision,
communications and innovation for future leaders in the ﬁne arts.Matters of Record https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/311
56 of 85 7/25/23, 12:56 PM
The Lou Anna Robbins Scholarship  was established by Jess H. Robbins of Dyersburg,
Tennessee. Preference is given to a student from First Presbyterian Church, Dyersburg, or
a student from Dyer County.
The Patricia and Charles Robertson, Jr. '65 Scholarship  was established by the
Robertsons to provide four-year support to students with documented, demonstrated
ﬁnancial need, and who show a commitment to contributing and learning inside and
outside the classroom.
The Martha Robinson  Scholarship for the Arts  was established in 2007 through the
termination of the Martha Robinson Charitable Remainder Trust. It provides  support for
Arts programs that foster leadership, vision, communications and innovation for future
leaders in the ﬁne arts.
The John F. Rockett Scholarship  was created in 1991 in his memory through gifts from
family, business associates, and friends. The scholarship is awarded to a junior or senior
athlete who plans to attend medical school.
The Professor Jim Roper '48 Scholarship was established by Rhodes alumnus and trustee
Stratton Bull '74 for the ﬁnancial aid support of Rhodes students.
The Anne L. Rorie/Chi Omega Scholarship  was established in her memory by her parents,
Dr. and Mrs. J. E. Rorie. and by her friends and fellow students. Anne was a member of
the Class of 1982.
The William M. Rosson Scholarship in Physics  was established in 1989 to honor Conwood
Corporation President, William Rosson. The scholarship is awarded to a student majoring
in physics.
The Lucy W. Rowe Scholarship  was provided by the late Mrs. Lucy W. Rowe and her
daughter, Mrs. William R. Carrington Jones, Memphis.
The Jules B. Rozier Scholarships  were established by the late Mr. Jules B. Rozier,
Memphis.
The Theo Matthews Hayden and Marjorie Matthews Russell Study Abroad
Scholarship  was funded by the estate of Marjorie M. Russell in 2008. The scholarship will
be awarded to Rhodes students who wish to study abroad in Scotland.
The Theo Matthews Hayden and Marjorie Matthews Russell Scholarship  was funded by
the estate of Marjorie M. Russell in 2008. It is to be awarded to a student from Scotland
who wishes to attend Rhodes College. If no student from Scotland qualiﬁes in any given
year, then the scholarship will be awarded to a student with demonstrated ﬁnancial need.
The John Hunt Rutledge II Scholarship  was provided by friends in memory of thisMatters of Record https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/311
57 of 85 7/25/23, 12:56 PM
outstanding leader from the Class of 1972.
The Billie J. Scharding Scholarship  was established through a bequest of Mrs. Scharding.
The Mary Gideon Schillig '47  Scholarship for the Arts  was funded by the estate of Mary
Gideon Schillig in 2007. It provides support for Arts programs that  foster leadership,
vision, communications and innovation for future leaders in the ﬁne arts.
The Stephen J. Schmidt, Jr. Scholarship  was provided for students with need by the late
Mr. Schmidt, Class of 1972.
The Charlaine Harris Schulz '73 Scholarship  is awarded to a female student with ﬁnancial
need. Preference is given to individuals who major or minor in English.
The Dr. and Mrs. Perry D. Scrivner Scholarship  was established by the late Mrs. Lucretia
H. Scrivner of Lawton, Oklahoma. This scholarship is to be awarded to a worthy student
interested in education as a profession.
The Josephine Gilﬁllan Seabrook '42 and Conrad L. Seabrook Scholarship for the
Arts  was established in 2007. It provides support for Arts programs that  foster leadership,
vision, communications and innovation for future leaders in the ﬁne arts.
The Second Presbyterian Church, Memphis, Scholarships  are funded by Second
Presbyterian Church. Preference is given to members of Second Presbyterian Church and
members of churches afﬁliated with the Evangelical Presbyterian Church.
The Service Scholarship  was established in 2006 by an anonymous donor to support
Bonner Service Scholars.
The Madhuri and Devchand Shah Scholarship  was created in 2013 by Vimal Shah '94, in
honor of his parents. The scholarship is awarded to a minority student from a lower
income family.
The Elder L. Shearon, Jr. Scholarship  was created by The Southern Company to honor its
late president and goes to a student with ﬁnancial need.
The Charles R. and Rebecca L. Sherman Service Scholarship  was established in 2005 by
Charles '35 and Rebecca '38 in memory of their respective parents, Charles Robert
Sherman and Rosa Livingston Sherman, and Judge Harry Williamson Laughlin and
Frances Weber Laughlin. The scholarship is awarded to students who demonstrate
experience in and commitment to community service.
The Anne and Mary Shewmaker Scholarship  was established through the estate of Mary
Shewmaker in 2006 to aid students with demonstrated ﬁnancial need. Preference is given
to female graduates of Central High School, Memphis.Matters of Record https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/311
58 of 85 7/25/23, 12:56 PM
The Clare Orman Shields '73 Scholarship  was initiated in her memory by Louise Allen ‘77
and Jan Cornaghie. Additional funding was provided by her late husband, Lynn Shields,
as well as family and classmates. It provides aid to women students with ﬁnancial need.
Clare Shields was a great advocate for women, having been both a pioneer and a role
model for women in the legal community.
The Shiland/Park Scholarship  was established in 2013 by Patricia Shiland P'15 and
James Park P'15 to enroll, challenge and graduate talented students from middle income
families who demonstrate an entrepreneurial spirit.
The Charles M. Simmons '09 Fellowship  was established in 2009 by his parents, Jan and
Tom Simmons, and The Bea and Margaret Love Foundation. This scholarship supports a
student from Texas with academic promise and a commitment to learning outside of the
classroom through an internship, service, study abroad, or research experience.
The David L. Simpson III '58 Scholarship  was established in 2009 in his memory by his
wife, trustee Elizabeth LeMaster Simpson '58, to beneﬁt students with need from middle
income families.
The Robert and Seabelle Simono Scholarship  was provided by Judith Simono Durff '66
and Thomas H. Durff '65 to honor her parents. The scholarship is awarded to students
with need from Mississippi.
The Cindy and John Sites Scholarship  was created by John Sites '74 and his wife Cindy of
New York. This scholarship is awarded based on academic merit of the student.
The Leland Smith Emergency Assistance Fund  was established in his memory by James
N. Augustine '89 and his wife, Tanya Augustine, in 2008. The Fund provides emergency
assistance to students beyond the college’s normal ﬁnancial aid package.
The Katherine Hinds Smythe Scholarship  was provided by Katherine Hinds Smythe '53 to
assist deserving students who face ﬁnancial crises which threaten their return to Rhodes.
Preference is given to female students.
The Paul Snodgrass '46  Scholarship for the Arts  was established through his estate. It
provides supports for Arts programs that foster leadership, vision, communications and
innovation for future leaders in the ﬁne arts.
The William Spandow Scholarship in Chemistry  was established by the late Mrs. Florence
Gage Spandow, Memphis. This scholarship is awarded to a senior majoring in chemistry
whose previous record indicates graduation with academic honors or with honors
research.
The William Spandow Scholarship in Mathematics  was established by the late Mrs.
Florence Gage Spandow, Memphis. This scholarship is awarded to a senior majoring inMatters of Record https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/311
59 of 85 7/25/23, 12:56 PM
mathematics who is a candidate for the degree with academic honors or with honors
research.
The William Spandow Scholarship in Physics  was established by the late Mrs. Florence
Gage Spandow, Memphis. This scholarship is awarded to a senior majoring in physics
who is a candidate for the degree with academic honors or with honors research.
The C. L. and Mildred W. Springﬁeld Honor Scholarship  was established by Mr. James F.
Springﬁeld '51 of Memphis to honor his mother and his father, who was for many years
Comptroller of the college.
The James F. Springﬁeld, Jr. '87  Scholarship for the Arts  was established in 2006 by
James F. Springﬁeld, Sr. '51 in honor of his son. It provides support for Arts programs
that  foster leadership, vision, communications and innovation for future leaders in the arts.
The Virgil Starks, III '85 Memorial Scholarship  was established in 2013 by his friends for
students from the state of Alabama pursuing a career in medicine, law, teaching, or
theology.
The Mark Lee Stephens Scholarship  was established in his memory by his parents. This
award goes to a rising sophomore majoring in Theatre. Mark was a member of the Class
of 1988.
The Edward Norrel Stewart Scholarship , created by the late Dr. Ellen Davies-Rodgers, is
awarded to a student in commerce and business.
The Tommye Virginia Stewart '53 Scholarship  was established by the alumna's sister, Mrs.
Dorothy Shepherd, for deserving students with need.
The Dr. Thomas E. and Peggy C. Strong Scholarship  was established by family and
friends on the occasion of his retirement from medical practice. Dr. and Mrs. Strong,
members of the classes of 1954 and 1955, have subsequently increased the value of the
Strong Scholarship through their own gifts. It is awarded to students with ﬁnancial need
selected on the basis of academic achievement and promise.
The Sudderth Scholarship , established by the friends and family of Dr. Brian Sudderth '77,
is awarded to a student who demonstrates outstanding academic and leadership qualities
as well as a desire to serve those in need through practice in the “learned professions” of
medicine, law, and/or theology.
The Warren Ware Sullivan Memorial Scholarship  was established by his father, Mr. H. P.
Sullivan, Walls, Mississippi, and friends of the family.
The Gene Dickson Symes Scholarship  was established by members of Webster Groves
Presbyterian Church, Webster Groves, Missouri, in honor of their Organist Emeritus, theMatters of Record https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/311
60 of 85 7/25/23, 12:56 PM
late Gene Dickson Symes '45.
The Jack H. Taylor Fellowship in Physics  was created in 2005 by alumnus Charles W.
Robertson, Jr. '65 and his wife Patricia K. Robertson. From 1956 to 1992, Dr. Jack H.
Taylor '44 served on the Rhodes faculty as Professor of Physics. Dr. Robertson was
inspired by Dr. Taylor and pursued a very successful career in physics after graduation.
The fellowship, restricted to students studying physics, is awarded through application and
competitive process based on academic and scientiﬁc achievements as well as interest
and aptitude for the study of physics.
The Jack H. Taylor Scholarship  was established in 2000 by Harry L. Swinney '61 in honor
of his Rhodes mentor, Jack H. Taylor '44, Professor Emeritus of Physics. The scholarship
is restricted to students majoring in the physical and biological sciences.
The Mary Allie Taylor Scholarship  was created through the will of Miss Taylor, Class of
1933.
The Tennessee Churches Scholarship  was funded by the Presbyterian Churches of
Tennessee and the Synod of Tennessee in the mid-1970's. Preference is given to a
Presbyterian student.
The James A. Thomas III '62 Service Scholarship  was established in 2005 by an
anonymous alumnus to provide ﬁnancial aid for deserving students who have
demonstrated ﬁnancial need as well as experience with and commitment to community
service.
The Whit Thomas Scholarship  was established in his memory by the Sigma Nu Fraternity
Epsilon Sigma Chapter at Rhodes.
The Edward F. Thompson Scholarship Fund  was established by the late Mr. Thompson, a
member of Rhodes Class of 1929 and retired economist with Union Planters Bank of
Memphis.
The Frances Tigrett Service Scholarship  was funded through the estate of Frances Tigrett
of Jackson, Tennessee. The scholarship is awarded to students who commit to performing
ten hours of community service weekly.
The Tollison Family Scholarship was established to support middle income students by
Grady Tollison, Jr. '62 and his wife, Lisa.
The Elizabeth '04 and Sarah '07 Townsend Family Scholarship  was established in 2008 by
their parents Deborah and Darrell Townsend of Nashville, Tennessee. It is awarded to a
student with demonstrated ﬁnancial need.
The Bill and Carole Troutt Scholarship  was established in 2007 by Dr. and Mrs. Troutt toMatters of Record https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/311
61 of 85 7/25/23, 12:56 PM
support a middle-income student from West Tennessee who otherwise would be unable to
attend Rhodes.
The Truist Fellowship  is provided to support deserving students with ﬁnancial need.
Preference is given to Memphis students.
The Paul Tudor and Anna Hudson Jones '32 Scholarship was established by former
trustee Ann Boyle and her husband John Boyle in honor of her parents.   The scholarship
supports the ﬁnancial aid needs of Rhodes students.
The Henry and Lynne Turley RIRS Fellowship  was created by Henry and Lynne Turley in
2010 to support the Rhodes Institute for Regional Studies (RIRS) for four years. Each
year, The Turley Fellowship will provide funding for one RIRS faculty member and will
support three RIRS Fellows, including research and travel funds to aid these students in
their individual research projects.
The Frank L. Turner '50 Scholarship for the Arts  was funded in 2010 through his estate. It
provides support for Arts programs that foster leadership, vision, communications and
innovation for future leaders in the ﬁne arts.
The UT Neuroscience Student Research Fellowship  was established in 2006 by James T.
Robertson '53 to support an outstanding student in the physical sciences who is selected
to pursue summer research activities in neuroscience at the University of Tennessee
Center for the Health Sciences.
The Douglas L. Viar Memorial Scholarship  was established in 2013 by Michelle Viar '94 in
memory of her father. The scholarship will provide critical aid to students who
unexpectedly require ﬁnancial help to complete their Rhodes education.
The Emma Dean Voorhies Boys Club Scholarship  was established by the Boys Club of
Memphis to provide assistance to a Boys Club member.
The Debby and John Wallace III '75 Service Scholarship  was established by trustee John
M. Wallace III '75 and his wife Debby. It provides aid to students who have demonstrated
experience in and commitment to community service.
The Edith Wright Wallace '44 Scholarship  was established in her memory by her mother,
the late Ethel Winfrey Wright. It is awarded to students with need. Mrs. Wallace was a
Latin teacher in the Memphis City Schools for 34 years prior to her death in 1978.
The Dr. Robert R. and Sarah Pickens Waller Scholarship  was established by alumna
Sarah Waller '63 and her husband, trustee Robert Waller.
The Mary Rodriguez Wardrop '55 Scholarship  was established by Rhodes alumna Mary
Rodriguez Wardrop '55 to support the ﬁnancial needs of Rhodes students.Matters of Record https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/311
62 of 85 7/25/23, 12:56 PM
The Harry B. Watkins, Jr. Memorial Scholarship  was created by the First Presbyterian
Church of Dyersburg, Tennessee.
The Henry C. Watkins Scholarship  was established by Mr. Edmund Orgill, C.I.T. Financial
Services, and C.I.T. executives.
The Dr. and Mrs. Paul McLauren Watson Scholarship  was established with a gift during
their lifetimes from Rose Lynn Barnard Watson '38 and Lauren Watson '37 of Memphis.
The Rev. Dr. Roy Edwards Watts '25 and Margaret Vincent Watts '25 CODA
Scholarship  was established by in 2007 through their estates. It provides aid to deserving
students participating in the Center for Outreach in the Development of the Arts at
Rhodes. The program fosters leadership, vision, communications and innovation for future
leaders in the ﬁne arts.
The Norma Webb Scholarship  was created in 2013 by Norma Webb '52 to support
students with need.
The Walker Wellford, Jr. Scholarship  was established in his honor by his wife, the late
Minnie Lundy Wellford '29, and is awarded to a deserving student. The late Mr. Wellford
'29 was secretary of the Board of Trustees from 1957 to 1961.
Esther West Scholarship  was established by Esther West Pearson ’32 to provide aid to
deserving Rhodes students.
The Terry E. Westbrook '66 Scholarship for International Study  was established in 2006
through Dr. Westbrook's estate. It provides aid to deserving students with demonstrated
ﬁnancial need to engage in study abroad.
The Robert William Wheeler '84 Endowed Scholarship  is awarded to a student with
ﬁnancial need.
The Gordon White Scholarship  was established by his sister, the late Mrs. Lizzie Gordon
White Hood, Nashville, Tennessee.
The Mary Kennedy Lane White Scholarship  was established by Mrs. Alice B. Buell. It is
restricted to a student from Giles County, Tennessee.
The Sarah B. White '39 Scholarship was established by members of the Class of 1939 in
honor of Rhodes alumna Sarah Boothe White to support the ﬁnancial aid needs of Rhodes
students.
The Thomas J. White, Jr. '39 Scholarship , established in 2011 through his estate, provides
need-based aid to deserving students.Matters of Record https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/311
63 of 85 7/25/23, 12:56 PM
The Lettie Pate Whitehead Scholarships  are awarded on an annual basis by the Lettie
Pate Whitehead Foundation of Atlanta. These scholarships are awarded to deserving
female students from nine southern states named by the Foundation.
The Charles B. Wiggin and Aileen Smith Wiggin Scholarship  was established in 2004
through the estate of Aileen N. Wiggin of Meridian, Mississippi. Preference is given to
students who are Mississippi residents.
The Russel S. and Teresa L. Wilkinson Scholarship  was established by a friend of Mr.
Wilkinson to provide scholarship assistance to students attending Rhodes.
The Anne Marie Williford Emergency Aid Fund  was established in 2009 by an anonymous
alumna to provide aid in the event of ﬁnancial crisis to students who are active and
successful members of the Rhodes community and who demonstrate a need for
emergency assistance as determined and selected by college committee.
The Jane Wittichen Williams and Ernest B. Williams III Scholarship , provided by alumna
Mrs. Williams '52 and her husband, gives preference for aid to upperclassmen who exhibit
a commitment to community service.
The M. J. Williams Scholarship  honors the former Director of Finance at Rhodes.
The Jim and Jackie Williamson Scholarship  was created by James C. Williamson '50 and
Jacqueline Newman Williamson '52 in honor of their 50th class reunions.
The Kemmons Wilson Family Foundation Service Scholarship  was established in 2006 by
The Kemmons Wilson Family Foundation. Selection is based on the student’s academic
performance, leadership ability, and involvement in his or her high school community. As
part of scholarship requirements, recipients will participate in community service and
leadership programs while enrolled at Rhodes.
The Spence L. Wilson Service Scholarship  was created in 2005 by the then Chair of
Rhodes Board of Trustees, Spence L. Wilson and his wife Rebecca Webb Wilson. It
provides ﬁnancial aid for deserving students who have demonstrated ﬁnancial need as
well as experience with and commitment to community service.
The B. Oliver Wood Scholarship  was established by Mr. and Mrs. B. Oliver Wood, Jr. of
Midland, Texas, in memory of his father, an alumnus in the Class of 1915.
The Marjorie '39 and Al '39 Wunderlich Scholarship  was established in 2008 by Al
Wunderlich and his late wife, Marjorie Jennings Wunderlich. It is awarded to a deserving
student with demonstrated ﬁnancial need.
The Mrs. Grey S. Wurtsbaugh Scholarship  is awarded to a student with ﬁnancial need with
preference given to students from Shreveport, Louisiana.Matters of Record https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/311
64 of 85 7/25/23, 12:56 PM
The John Thomas Wurtsbaugh Scholarship  was established by Mrs. John Thomas
Wurtsbaugh of Shreveport, Louisiana, in memory of her husband.
Printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/matters-record/endowments-awards-and-
memorials
Faculty
The Faculty
Rhodes’ strength as a distinguished college of the liberal arts and sciences is dependent
on an exceptionally able student body and a faculty of effective teachers and committed
scholars. College planning, including curriculum and academic facilities, is done with the
objective of making it possible for students and faculty to create an imaginative and
challenging learning experience.
Rhodes recruits faculty members who demonstrate excellent teaching and who show
promise of continued and signiﬁcant scholarly activity. The College also depends on the
Faculty to provide leadership not only in academic development for the College but also in
the overall governance of the institution. 
The College is justiﬁably proud of the accomplishments of its Faculty. In particular, the
Clarence Day Award for Outstanding Teaching, the Clarence Day Award for Research and
Creative Activity, and the Jameson M. Jones Outstanding Faculty Service Award are given
to those individuals judged as deserving of special recognition. Award winners have been
as follows:
Clarence Day Award for Outstanding Teaching
1981  Dr. Jack U. Russell , Mathematics
1982  Dr. Marshall E. McMahon , Economics
1983  Dr. William Larry Lacy , Philosophy
1984  Dr. James M. Vest , French
1985  Dr. Fred W. Neal , Religious Studies
1986  Dr. E. Llewellyn Queener , Psychology
1987  Dr. Rebecca Sue Legge , Business Administration
1988  Dr. Terry W. Hill , Biology
1989  Dr. F. Michael McLain , Religious Studies
1990  Dr. Cynthia Marshall , English
1991  Dr. William T. Jolly , Classics
1992  Dr. G. Kenneth Williams , Mathematics
1993  Dr. Jennifer Brady , EnglishMatters of Record https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/311
65 of 85 7/25/23, 12:56 PM
1994  Dr. Horst R. Dinkelacker , Modern Languages and Literatures
1995  Dr. Carolyn R. Jaslow , Biology
1996  Professor Julia Ewing , Theatre
1997  Dr. Bradford D. Pendley , Chemistry
1998  Dr. Ellen T. Armour , Religious Studies
1999  Dr. Michael R. Drompp , History
2000  Dr. Brian W. Shaffer , English
2001  Dr. Stephen R. Haynes , Religious Studies
2002  Dr. Marshall Boswell,  English
2003  Dr. Brent Hoffmeister , Physics
2004  Dr. Timothy S. Huebner , History
2005  Dr. Stephen J. Ceccoli , International Studies
2006  Dr.  Tina Barr , English
2007  Dr. Patrick Shade , Philosophy
2008  Dr. Mark W. Muesse , Religious Studies
2009  Dr. P. Eric Henager , Modern Languages and Literatures
2010  Dr. Gordon Bigelow , English
2011  Dr. Bernadette McNary-Zak , Religious Studies
2012  Dr. Luther D. Ivory , Religious Studies
2013  Dr. Thomas Bryant , Music
2014 Dr. Teresa Beckham Gramm , Economics
2015 Dr. Loretta Jackson-Hayes , Chemistry
2016  Dr. Scott Newstok,  English
2017  Dr. Marcus Pohlmann,  Political Science
2018  Dr. Charles McKinney,  History
2019  Dr. Amy Risley, International Studies
2020  Dr. Geoff Maddox,  Psychology
2021 Dr. Brian Larkins,  Mathematics and Computer Science
2022  Dr. Rebecca Finlayson,  English
2023 Dr. David McCarthy, Art and Art History
Clarence Day Award for Research and Creative Activity
1981  Dr. John F. Copper , International Studies
1983  Professor Jack D. Farris , English
1984  Dr. Richard D. Gilliom , Chemistry
1985  Dr. David H. Kesler , Biology
1986  Professor Tony Lee Garner , Theatre
1987  Dr. James M. Olcese , Biology
1988  Dr. John F. Copper , International Studies
1989  Dr. Alan P. Jaslow , Biology
1990  Dr. Jack H. Taylor , Physics
1991  Dr. Marcus D. Pohlmann , Political ScienceMatters of Record https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/311
66 of 85 7/25/23, 12:56 PM
1992  Dr. Steven L. McKenzie , Religious Studies
1993  Dr. Robert J. Strandburg , Psychology
1994  Dr. Andrew A. Michta , International Studies
1995  Dr. Brian W. Shaffer , English
1996  Dr. Cynthia A. Marshall , English
1997  Dr. Stephen R. Haynes , Religious Studies
1998  Dr. Robert M. MacQueen , Physics
1999  Dr. Gail P. C. Streete , Religious Studies
2000  Dr. Susan M. Kus , Anthropology/Sociology
2001  Dr. Michael Nelson , Political Science
2002  Dr. Lynn B. Zastoupil , History
2003  Dr. Natalie K. Person , Psychology
2004  Dr. David P. McCarthy , Art
2005  Dr. Daniel G. Arce , Economics
2006  Dr. Ming Dong Gu , Modern Languages and Literatures
2007  Dr. Marshall Boswell , English
2008  Dr. Mary Miller , Biology
2009  Dr. Christopher Mouron , Mathematics and Computer Science
2010  Dr. Terry Hill , Biology; Dr. Darlene Loprete, Chemistry
2011  Dr. Jeffrey Jackson , History
2012  Dr. Shadrack W. Nasong’o , International Studies
2013  Dr. Patrick Gray , Religious Studies
2014 Dr. Katherine White , Psychology
2015 Dr. Christopher Seaton , Mathematics and Computer Science
2016  Dr. Carole Blankenship,  Music
2017  Dr. Betsy Sanders,  Mathematics and Computer Science
2018  Dr. Marsha Walton,  Psychology
2019  Dr. Michael LaRosa,  History
2020  Dr. David Rupke,  Physics
2021 Dr. Scott Newstok,  English
2022  Dr. Zac Casey,  Educational Studies
2023 Dr. William Skoog, Music
Diehl Society Award for Service
1988  Dr. Harold Lyons , Chemistry
1989  Dr. John S. Olsen , Biology
1990  Professor David Ramsey , Music
1991  Dr. David Y. Jeter , Chemistry
1992  Dr. Gail C. McClay , Education
1993  Dr. Robert L. Llewellyn , PhilosophyMatters of Record https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/311
67 of 85 7/25/23, 12:56 PM
1994  Dr. Douglas W. Hatﬁeld , History
1995  Dr. Rebecca Sue Legge , Business Administration
1996  Dr. Charles C. Orvis , Economics
1997  Dr. Donald W. Tucker , Modern Languages and Literatures
1998  Dr. Kathryn L. Wright , Modern Languages and Literatures
1999  Dr. Marcus D. Pohlmann , Political Science
2000  Dr. F. Michael McLain , Religious Studies
2001  Dr. Michael P. Kirby , Political Science
2002  Dr. Robert J. Strandburg , Psychology
2003  Dr. Marsha D. Walton , Psychology
2004  Dr. Joseph A. Favazza , Religious Studies
The Jameson M. Jones Outstanding Faculty Service Award
2005  Dr. Ellen T. Armour , Religious Studies
2006  Dr. Timothy S. Huebner , History
2007  Dr. John C. Kaltner , Religious Studies
2008  Dr. Gail P. C. Streete , Religious Studies
2009  Dr. David Kesler , Biology
2010  Dr. Steve Ceccoli , International Studies
2011  Professor David Jilg , Theatre
2012  Dr. Milton Moreland , Religious Studies
2013  Dr. Rebecca S. Finlayson , English
2014 Dr. John Planchon , Commerce and Business
2015 Dr. Bernadette McNary-Zak , Religious Studies
2016  Dr. Judith Haas,  English
2017  Dr. Natalie Person,  Psychology
2018  Dr. Michael Drompp,  History
2019  Dr. Pamela Church,  Business
2020  Dr. Gary Lindquester,   Biology
2021  Dr. R. Elizabeth Thomas,   Urban Studies
2022 Dr. Leslie Petty, English
Printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/matters-record/faculty
Historical Summary
Rhodes had its origin in the Clarksville Academy, founded in 1837. The Academy
conveyed its property in 1848 to the Masonic Grand Lodge of Tennessee and was merged
into the new Masonic University of Tennessee, a degree-granting institution of higher
education located in Clarksville, Tennessee. This institution became Montgomery Masonic
College in 1850, and in 1855 its name was again changed, to Stewart College, in honor ofMatters of Record https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/311
68 of 85 7/25/23, 12:56 PM
its president, William M. Stewart. Under President Stewart’s leadership the operation of
the College passed from the Masonic Lodge to the Presbyterian Synod of Nashville.
Under the Plan of Union of 1873, the Presbyterian Church reorganized Stewart College
after the Reconstruction Era to operate it as the single Presbyterian college for the entire
area which was at that time considered to be the Southwest.
In 1875 Stewart College became Southwestern Presbyterian University, developing
alongside the undergraduate curriculum a School of Theology, under the leadership of Dr.
Joseph Wilson, father of Woodrow Wilson. The School of Theology remained in operation
until 1917.
Under the leadership of President Charles E. Diehl, the College moved to Memphis in
1925 and adopted as its name Southwestern, denoting a liberal arts college. In 1945, the
ofﬁcial college name became Southwestern At Memphis.
On July 1, 1984, the name of the College was changed to Rhodes College in honor of
Peyton Nalle Rhodes, president from 1949 to 1965, who joined the faculty in 1926 and
served the institution until his death in 1984. John David Alexander served as president
from 1965 to 1969; William Lukens Bowden, from 1969 to 1973; James Harold Daughdrill,
Jr., from 1973 to 1999; and William Earl Troutt, from 1999 to 2017. Dr. Marjorie Hass
served as president from 2017 to 2021. Jennifer M. Collins became the 21st president of
the College on July 1, 2022.
Printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/matters-record/historical-summary
Intellectual Property
Rhodes College is a college of liberal arts whose mission is to maintain a community of
inquiry, discourse, and experiment in which it is clear that scholarship and teaching are
parts of a single enterprise. In the course of education there is an expansion of knowledge
and understanding, whether in the arts, social sciences, natural sciences or humanities.
Among the activities in the study and expansion of knowledge and understanding are the
creation of works in the literary, dramatic, musical and visual arts; and of research in the
social and physical sciences potentially producing innovation and technology. The
intellectual endeavors and activities of Rhodes faculty, staff, or students may result in
products of a tangible nature for which the College and the faculty, staff, or student may
deem it advantageous to enter these products into commerce. These products may be the
subject of a patent application or a copyrightable work or other tangible material and are
known collectively as “Intellectual Property.”
It is the policy of Rhodes College to encourage, support and recognize the contributions of
the faculty, and the student body where signiﬁcant works are created. Likewise it is aMatters of Record https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/311
69 of 85 7/25/23, 12:56 PM
policy of the College to honor the legal rights of authors and inventors, as well as the
funding entities supporting varied works. In order to recognize the potentially overlapping
rights in the complex support structure for the College’s activities, the college has issued
this policy on Intellectual Property for the guidance of all participating in the mission of the
College.
This policy is intended to:
• provide an incentive to creative intellectual effort and the advancement of knowledge.
• insure that the respective interests of the College, and supporting sponsor (if any)
are considered and protected through the development of fair contracts and
procedures.
• assist the Staff and the College to realize tangible beneﬁts from Intellectual Property,
and advance and encourage further research within the College with whatever funds
accrue to the College from Intellectual Property resulting from College research.
Deﬁnitions
• “College” shall mean Rhodes College.
• “Staff” shall mean any member of the faculty, administration, staff, student body,
postdoctoral fellow, or visiting scientist, whether or not they receive all or any part of
their salary or other compensation from the College.
• “Inventor” shall mean any Staff member who shall conceive or reduce to practice an
invention while engaged in College activities.
• “Author” shall mean any Staff member who prepares any College copyrightable work.
• “Contributor” shall mean any Staff member who shall have contributed substantially
to the existence of any item of Intellectual Property.
• “College Activities” shall mean activities engaged in by a member of the Staff by: (a)
written assignment of the College administration; (b) contractual agreement with the
College or any sponsor; (c) material use of facilities (other than its libraries), or other
resources of the College.
• “Intellectual Property” shall mean inventions, College copyrightable works, and
tangible results of research.
• “Invention” shall mean”…any new and useful process, machine, manufacture or
composition of matter or any new and useful improvement thereof…” as deﬁned
under the Patent Laws of the United States.
• “College Copyrightable Work” shall mean copyrightable works owned by the College.
• “Tangible Results of Research” shall mean a physical embodiment of the research
effort, including physical embodiments of any invention, or College Copyrightable
Work which results from College Activities by any member of the Staff. Such Tangible
Results of Research shall include, but not be limited to antibodies, cell lines, new
microorganisms, plant lines or progeny thereof; recombinant or other biologicalMatters of Record https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/311
70 of 85 7/25/23, 12:56 PM
materials; integrated circuit chips, computer software, engineering prototypes and
drawings, chemical compounds; devices; machines; and models.
• “Sponsor” shall mean any individual or organization that by written agreement with
the College shall ﬁnance in whole or part any College Activities.
• “New Revenue” or “Annual New Royalty” are deﬁned as revenues received from the
licensing and developing of an Intellectual Property after deduction of all costs
reasonably attributable to the protection and distribution of such Intellectual Property,
including any reasonable expense of patent or copyright prosecution, maintenance,
interference proceedings, litigation, marketing or other dissemination and licensing.
Net revenues from the following sources are subject to distribution: option fees; up-
front licensing fees; licensing payments; milestone payments; or proceeds from the
sale of stock or other equity in the licensee company.
Coverage
These policies shall apply as a condition of appointment or employment by the College to
every member of the Staff who during the period of their appointment or employment by
the College shall: (a) conceive or ﬁrst reduce to practice actually or constructively, any
Invention; (b) prepare any College Copyrightable Work; or (c) contribute substantially to
the existence of any Tangible Result of Research.
Disclosure of Intellectual Property
Every Staff member shall, in writing and in reasonable detail, give the Dean of the Faculty
prompt notice of any: (a) Invention; (b) College Copyrightable Work; or (c) Tangible Result
of Research which he or she shall desire to have patented, copyrighted or made available
to the investigators or the public by commercial or other means, or shall believe or have
reason to believe is patentable, copyrightable, or of value to other investigators or the
public, or otherwise of commercial value.
Ownership
Inventions. The rights of ownership to all Inventions which result from College Activities
shall be the property of the College; provided, however, that:
• Within the ninety (90) days next following disclosure of an Invention to the College
under the preceding Section on Disclosure of Intellectual Property (or such further
period of time as may be agreed upon by the Inventor and the Dean of the Faculty),
the Dean of the Faculty shall determine, and advise the Inventor in writing, whether
such rights shall be retained by the College, conditionally retained by the College or
shall be released to the inventor; and
• The rights of ownership to every Invention conceived by any Staff member while
engaged in other than College Activities shall be the property of that person.Matters of Record https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/311
71 of 85 7/25/23, 12:56 PM
Copyrightable Works. The rights of ownership to all copyrightable works prepared while
the Staff member is engaged in College Activities shall be the property of the College;
provided however that:
• Within the ninety (90) days following disclosure of College copyrightable Work to the
College under the preceding Section on Disclosure of Intellectual Property (or such
further period of time as may be agreed upon by the Author and the Dean of the
Faculty, the Dean of the Faculty shall determine, and advise the Author, in writing,
whether such rights shall be retained by the College, conditionally retained by the
College or shall be released to the Author; and
• Copyrightable works prepared by a Staff member while engaged in activities other
than College activities shall be the property of the Author.
Tangible Results of Research. All Tangible Results of Research shall be the property of
the College.
Sponsorship of Intellectual Property
The rights of ownership to each item of Intellectual Property produced during activities
conducted pursuant to any agreement between the College and any Sponsor shall be
determined in accordance with such agreement; however, it shall be the policy of the
College to retain title to Intellectual Property whenever possible under state or federal law.
Any agreement with a Sponsor pertaining to the ownership of Intellectual Property and
assignment thereof shall be made between the College and the Sponsor in advance of the
research or other activity that produces the Intellectual Property.
Disagreements
The President shall appoint a Committee on Intellectual Property composed of both faculty
members and administrative ofﬁcers (the Dean of the Faculty shall serve ex ofﬁcio). The
creator of any Intellectual Property that is or might be covered under this Policy (see
above for Patents) cannot be a voting member of this Committee. This Committee shall be
the body to whom appeals may be made. Whenever legal protection for Intellectual
Property is anticipated all persons engaged in such creative activity are encouraged to
keep regular notebooks and records, preferably in the form of bound notebooks that are
regularly signed and dated by the Inventor(s) as well as periodically signed by one or
more witnesses.
Seeking a Patent or Copyright
Whenever the Provost shall determine to seek the patenting or copyrighting of any
Invention or College Copyrightable Work, the College shall, without expense to the
Inventor or Author provide such professional services as it shall deem to be necessary orMatters of Record https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/311
72 of 85 7/25/23, 12:56 PM
desirable for such purpose, and which may include the services of an independent patent
organization. The Inventor or Author is obligated to cooperate fully in such effort, including
his or her execution of all necessary or desirable agreements, applications, and other
forms and instruments. If, at any time subsequently, the College shall terminate its effort to
seek such patent or copyright, it shall promptly give written notice thereof to the Inventor
or Author who thereupon to the extent allowed by law or any sponsorship agreement shall
be free at his or her expense to develop, license, and otherwise use the Invention, patent
application, patent or copyright. In this event the Inventor or Author shall receive all
beneﬁts of any development, licensing or other use of the Invention, patent application,
patent or copyright except that the College shall be entitled to recovery of associated
costs.
Transfer or Sale of Tangible Results of Research
Tangible Results of Research may not be transferred or sold to any party outside the
College before: (a) a disclosure of the Tangible Results of Research has been submitted
to the Provost and (b) the Contributor(s) has been notiﬁed by the Ofﬁce of the Dean of the
Faculty of any required conditions of such transfer or sale. Such notiﬁcation shall be made
within thirty (30) days following the disclosure of Tangible Results of Research.
Promotion and Licensing
In interpreting and applying these policies, the College shall, by such means as it shall
deem to be most effective and appropriate in each case, act to bring to the public all
Intellectual Property to which the College has rights of ownership in whole or part. Such
means may include, but shall not be limited to, agreements for the development,
patenting, copyrighting, promotion, licensing, printing, distributing or manufacturing of any
Intellectual Property; and in every case the College shall advise the Inventor, Author, or
contributor of the terms of any such proposed agreement. No agreements will be entered
into by the College without the review of all Inventors, Authors or contributors. Any
disagreement between the College and the Inventor(s), Author(s) or contributor(s)
concerning a proposed agreement will be resolved in a timely fashion by the Committee
on Intellectual Property.
Proceeds from Distribution of Intellectual Property
Invention Proceeds. Subsequent to the College’s recovery of funds that were invested in
patenting, marketing or developing Intellectual Property, the Contributor(s) and the College
will share in the net revenue received from the Contributor’s Intellectual Property(ies)
owned by and licensed from the College. The Contributor(s) will receive 50% of the net
revenues, and the College will receive 50%. It is understood that one-half of the College’s
portion will be for the primary purpose of advancing and encouraging further research and
intellectual property development within Rhodes College.Matters of Record https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/311
73 of 85 7/25/23, 12:56 PM
In the case of multiple Inventors, the Inventors’ share will be distributed among the
Inventors in accordance with a written agreement signed by all Inventors; or, if there is no
such agreement, all Inventors will receive an equal share.
If inventorship is shared among College Inventors and inventors at one or more other
institutions, the College will negotiate with the one or more other institutions concerning
exclusive licenses and distribution of revenues. College net revenues from such
agreements will be distributed to inventors at the College using the distribution formulae
discussed above.
Copyright Proceeds . These will follow the same distribution and stipulations as
Inventions listed above.
Tangible Results of Research Proceeds. To the extent allowed by law, where any Tangible
Result of Research is not within the scope of the claims of a patent, patent application, or
copyright, each Contributor shall share in any net revenue or annual net revenue to the
same extent a Contributor shares in proceeds listed above for Inventions and Copyrights.
Sponsors : Other Organizations
If and when any conﬂict shall arise between these Policies and any condition or conditions
of (a) any proposed grant from or contract with any organization offering to act as a
Sponsor or (b) the patent, copyright or intellectual property policies and procedures of any
other organization to which any joint appointment or any afﬁliation or consulting
agreement is made, such conﬂict shall be referred to the Committee on Intellectual
Property. Following consideration of the conﬂict the Committee shall recommend a course
of action to the College administration. It is incumbent on the College to take all
reasonable steps, including but not limited to appropriate legal action, to protect and
advocate issues on its behalf and those of the Inventor, Author or Contributor in the event
of a conﬂict with a Sponsor.
Release of Rights Ownership
The Ofﬁce of the Dean of the Faculty may, for reasons and upon terms deemed to be
satisfactory by its ofﬁce, release on behalf of the College at any time any Invention,
patent, patent application, College Copyrightable Work, copyright or right of ownership to
Tangible Results of Research to its Inventor, Author or Contributor.
Copyright
Within higher education, it has been the prevailing academic practice to treat the faculty
member as the copyright owner of works that are created independently and at the faculty
member’s own initiative for traditional academic purposes. Examples include, but are not
limited to, class notes and syllabi, books and articles, works of ﬁction and nonﬁction,Matters of Record https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/311
74 of 85 7/25/23, 12:56 PM
poems and dramatic works, musical and choreographic works, pictorial, graphic, and
sculptural works, computer programs, computer-generated works, and educational
software (commonly known as “courseware”). This practice has been followed for the
most part, regardless of the physical medium in which these “traditional academic works”
appear, that is, whether on paper or in audiovisual or electronic form. This practice should
also ordinarily apply to the development of courseware for use in programs of distance
education. Situations do arise, however, in which the College may fairly claim ownership
of, or an interest in, copyright in works created by faculty members. Three general kinds of
projects fall into this category: special works created in circumstances that may properly
be regarded as “made for hire,” negotiated contractual transfers, and joint works” as
described in the Copyright Act.
Works Made for Hire.  Although traditional academic work that is copyrightable—such as
lecture notes and courseware, books, and articles—cannot normally be treated as works
made for hire, some works created by College faculty members do properly fall within that
category, allowing the institution to claim copyright ownership. Works created as a speciﬁc
requirement of employment or as an assigned institutional duty that may, for example, be
included in a written job description or an employment agreement, may be fairly deemed
works made for hire. Even absent such prior written speciﬁcation, ownership will vest with
the college or university in those cases in which it provides the speciﬁc authorization or
supervision for the preparation of the work. Examples are reports prepared by a dean or
by the chair or members of a faculty committee, or college promotional brochures
prepared by a director of admissions. The Copyright Act also deﬁnes as a “work made for
hire” certain works that are commissioned from one who is not an employee but an
“independent contractor.” The institution will own the copyright in such a commissioned
work when the author is not a College employee, or when the author is such a faculty
member but the work to be created falls outside the normal scope of that person’s
employment duties (such as a professor of art history commissioned by the institution
under special contract to write a catalog for a campus art gallery). In such situations, for
the work-made-for-hire doctrine to apply there must be a written agreement so stating and
signed by both parties; the work must also fall within a limited number of statutory
categories, which include instructional texts, examinations, and contributions to a
collective work.
Contractual Transfers.  In situations in which the copyright ownership is held by the
faculty member, it is possible for the individual to transfer the entire copyright, or a more
limited license, to the College or to a third party. As already noted, under the Copyright
Act, a transfer of all of the copyright or of an exclusive right must be reﬂected in a signed
document in order to be valid. When, for example, a work is prepared pursuant to a
program of “sponsored research” accompanied by a monetary grant from a third party, a
contract signed by the faculty member providing that copyright will be owned by the
College will be enforceable. Similarly, the College may reasonably request that the faculty
member—when entering into an agreement granting the copyright or publishing rights to aMatters of Record https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/311
75 of 85 7/25/23, 12:56 PM
third party—make efforts to reserve to the institution the right to use the work in its
internally administered programs of teaching, research, and public service on a perpetual,
royalty-free, nonexclusive basis.
Joint Works.  Under certain circumstances, two or more persons may share copyright
ownership of a work, notably when it is a “joint work.” The most familiar example of a joint
work is a book or article written, fully collaboratively, by two academic colleagues. Each is
said to be a “co-owner” of the copyright, with each having all the usual rights of the
copyright owner provided that any income from such uses is shared with the other. In rare
situations it may be proper to treat a work as a product of the joint authorship of the faculty
member and the College, so that both have a shared interest in the copyright. Whoever
owns the copyright, the College may reasonably require reimbursement for any unusual
ﬁnancial or technical support. (“Unusual ﬁnancial or technical support” is deﬁned as
follows: Extensive un-reimbursed use of major College laboratory, studio, or computational
facilities, or human resources. The use of these facilities must be important to the creation
of the intellectual property; merely incidental use of a facility does not constitute
substantial use, or does extensive use of a facility commonly available to all faculty or
professional staff (such as libraries and ofﬁces), nor does extensive use of a specialized
facility for routine tasks. Use will be considered “unusual” and facilities will be considered
“major” if similar use facilities would cost the creator more than $5,000 (ﬁve thousand
dollars) in constant 1984 dollars if purchased or leased in the public marketplace. Creators
wishing to reimburse the College for the use of its facilities must make arrangements to do
so before the level of facilities usage for a particular intellectual property becomes
substantial as deﬁned.) That reimbursement might take the form of future royalties or a
nonexclusive, royalty-free license to use the work for internal educational and
administrative purposes. This means that the course developer and the College must
reach an understanding about the conditions of portability and commercialization of faculty
work developed using substantial College resources. Ordinarily, such an understanding
will be recorded in a written agreement between the course developer and the College on
a course-by-course basis.
Printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/matters-record/intellectual-property
Rhodes Presbyterian History and Liberal Arts Heritage
Rhodes’ relation to the Presbyterian Church has remained close and unbroken since
1855. The most recent expression of the College’s relationship to the Church may be
found in a covenant statement between Rhodes and the Church, summarized as follows:
Rhodes is a liberal arts college associated with the Presbyterian Church (U.S.A.). The
College has a covenant relationship with the Synod of Living Waters (Tennessee,
Mississippi, Alabama, Kentucky).Matters of Record https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/311
76 of 85 7/25/23, 12:56 PM
Rhodes, as a church-related college whose primary mission is to educate, guarantees
freedom of inquiry for faculty and students. The College, without pressing for acceptance,
maintains a climate in which the Christian faith is nurtured. The curriculum includes a
variety of courses in Bible and religion that explore the Judeo-Christian heritage and its
implications for the whole of life. Students are required to study the Bible and its
relationship with history and culture as a part of their college work. As an academic
community founded on Christian ideals, Rhodes expresses personal concern for students,
provides opportunities for corporate worship, and maintains a commitment to social justice
and human mercy.
More speciﬁcally, the educational purpose of the College is expressed in its maintenance
of an environment for the pursuit of truth in which it is ensured that the Christian faith is
clearly articulated, that its formative role in Western civilization is carefully considered, and
that honest intellectual and moral questions are articulated and responded to intelligently
and sensitively.
This commitment is made clear in a resolution adopted by the Board of Trustees of the
College: It is the intention of the Board that the College substantially complies with
requiring twelve credits of sound and comprehensive study of the Bible for the granting of
a degree. In keeping with this resolution and with the mission of the College, the
foundations requirement is structured so that there are two ways available to students to
complete this part of the degree program. Students may choose the course The Search
for Values in the Light of Western History and Religion or the Life: Then and Now
Program.
Printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/matters-record/rhodes-presbyterian-history-and-
liberal-arts-heritage
The Campus
The following alphabetical listing of Rhodes buildings includes functions of these facilities
and the names of those who made the buildings possible. Thirteen campus buildings and
two permanent gateways are listed on The National Register of Historic Places.
The Alburty Swimming Complex, given through the generosity of the late E. A. (Bob) and
Emily Beale Alburty, was dedicated May, 1977.
The Ashner Gateway* is a memorial to I. W. and Sallie Ashner, established by Mrs. Julius
Goodman and Mrs. Ike Gronauer of Memphis.
Bailey Lane, the north campus drive between Snowden Street and Charles Place, was
named in 1998 for Memphian Edgar H. Bailey, Rhodes life trustee, and his wife Ann
Pridgen Bailey, Class of 1947, in grateful appreciation of their vision, generosity andMatters of Record https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/311
77 of 85 7/25/23, 12:56 PM
devoted service to Rhodes.
Paul Barret, Jr. Library, made possible by a major gift from the Paul Barret, Jr. Trust,
opened in August 2005. Paul Barret, Jr., a graduate of the class of 1946 who died in 1999,
was the nephew of Mr. and Mrs. A.K. Burrow, who provided for the construction of the
1953 Burrow Library.
Bellingrath Residence Hall* was dedicated October 18, 1961, in memory of Dr. Walter D.
Bellingrath, Mobile, Alabama, a long-time friend and benefactor of the College.
Blount Hall, a residence hall completed in 1986, was dedicated on October 17, 1996 in
recognition of Carolyn and Wynton Malcolm Blount as distinguished leaders, benefactors
and friends of Rhodes.
Boyle Court, provided by the employees of Boyle Investment Company in memory of
Chairman Emeritus J. Bayard Boyle, Sr., was dedicated January 23, 1997. In 1998, as
part of the 150th Anniversary celebration of Rhodes, a time capsule was buried in Boyle
Court, to be opened in 2048.
Thomas W. Briggs Hall, previously the Thomas W. Briggs Student Center, was provided
through the generosity of the late Mr. and Mrs. Thomas W. Briggs of Memphis, augmented
by gifts of parents and other friends, and dedicated May 2, 1966. It houses the Computer
Science department and campus-wide meeting spaces.
The Bryan Campus Life Center, dedicated January 23, 1997, was given in honor of
Catherine Wilkerson Bryan by her four children, John Henry Bryan, Jr. '58, Caroline Bryan
Harrell, family of Catherine Bryan Dill, George Wilkerson Bryan and by Bryan Foods of
West Point, Mississippi, co-founded by her husband, the late John Henry Bryan, Sr. The
Center encompasses a performance gymnasium, a three-court multiuse gymnasium,
racquetball and squash courts, a state of the art ﬁtness room, an indoor jogging track and
accommodations for student social events, lectures and other campus occasions. Other
activity areas include:
• The L. Palmer Brown Lynx Lair, a student recreation area housing the snack bar,
billiards and other game rooms, TV viewing and lounge areas.
• The Brenda and Lester Crain Reception Hall provides elegant accommodations for
campus social events and other special occasions.
• The Dunavant Tennis Complex, the gift of Dr. Tommie S. and William B. Dunavant,
Jr., includes ten lighted courts and stadium seating built to NCAA National
tournament standards.
• The William Neely Mallory Memorial Gymnasium is the site of Rhodes’ intercollegiate
athletic events. It was dedicated December 10, 1954, in memory of Major William
Neely Mallory, Memphis, who was killed in an airplane crash in Italy on February 19,
1945. Major Mallory became a member of the Board of Directors of Rhodes in 1937,Matters of Record https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/311
78 of 85 7/25/23, 12:56 PM
and in 1938 became Treasurer of the College, which ofﬁce he held at the time of his
death.
• The McCallum Ballroom is named in honor of Virginia J. and Robert D. McCallum,
Chair of Rhodes Board of Trustees from 1969 to 1981.
• The Ruth Sherman Hyde Gymnasium, made possible by gifts of the J. R. Hyde
family, was dedicated March 17, 1971. It now houses three racquetball courts and an
aerobics/dance studio.
• Crain Field, home of the Rhodes football and lacrosse teams, was recently renovated
with state-of-the-art FieldTurf provided by a gift from Brenda and J. Lester Crain, Jr.
'51. The ﬁeld was dedicated in 2012 in honor of his father, J. Lester Crain, Sr. '29.
• Fargason Field, the original athletic playing ﬁelds on campus, was the gift to the
College of about 15 acres of land owned by Mr. John T. Fargason and his sister Mrs.
Mary Fargason Falls. Their generosity and name are now reﬂected in the collection
of ﬁelds for varsity sports located to the north of the William Neely Mallory
Gymnasium.
• Jerden Field for intramurals and club sports is named In honor of Jane and J.L.
Jerden '59.
• Mason Field for Field Hockey was dedicated in 2013 thanks to the generosity of the
Mason family.
• Solomon Field which serves as a practice ﬁeld, was dedicated in 1994 in memory of
the winning college football player and all-round outstanding athlete Craig R.
Solomon '79.
• Stauffer Field at Irwin Lainoff Stadium, home of the Rhodes varsity baseball team,
was named in 1977 in honor of Frederic R. Stauffer, professor of physics for 26 years
and college baseball coach for 10 years. Renovations completed by the 2009 season
gave the College one of the ﬁnest baseball facilities in NCAA Division III, including
the Irwin Lainoff Stadium, thanks to Riea and Steven Lainoff and other donors.
• The Winston Wolfe Track and Field Complex was dedicated in 2010 in honor of
Winston Wolfe, an entrepreneur, athlete, philanthropist, and loyal friend of Rhodes
College.
Buckman Hall was named in honor of Mertie W. Buckman and the late Stanley J.
Buckman and their family. It houses the departments of International Studies, Economics
and Business Administration, Political Science, Language Laboratory, and the Wynton M.
Blount Lecture Hall. The building features Daughdrill Tower, which honors President and
Mrs. James H. Daughdrill, Jr. and was provided anonymously by an alumna-trustee of the
College. The building was dedicated October 24, 1991.
Adrienne McMillan Burns Memorial Labyrinth, given in 2005 in memory of the Class of
1988 alumna.
Burrow Hall,* formerly the College library, was given through the generosity of the late Mr.Matters of Record https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/311
79 of 85 7/25/23, 12:56 PM
and Mrs. A. K. Burrow, Memphis, and dedicated October 8, 1953. It was renovated in
1988 and again in 2008 when it reopened as the Burrow Center for Student Opportunity.
Burrow Hall contains the Alburty Room, named in honor of Rhodes Trustee the late E. A.
Alburty, and the Pearce Conference Room for Career Services, International Education
and Fellowships, provided by Elizabeth Roe Pearce '91.
The Catherine Burrow Refectory named in honor of the late Mrs. A. K. Burrow, Memphis,
is the College’s main dining facility. It encompasses:
• The Davis Room, named in honor of the late Thomas B. Davis of Memphis.
• The Hugh M. Neely Hall,* the original dining hall on campus, dedicated on November
13, 1928. It was provided through the generosity and affection of the late Mrs. Mary
Sneed Neely as a memorial to her husband Hugh M. Neely, a heroic soldier and
public-spirited citizen.
• The Margaret Rufﬁn Hyde Hall,* built in 1958 and dedicated in 1993 in honor of the
late Dr. Margaret R. Hyde, Class of 1934, benefactor and Trustee of the College.
• Rollow Hall, built in 1987, and dedicated on Oct 26, 2002, by Ann Rollow Ross '52 in
memory of her parents, John ’26 and Louise Mayo Rollow '30, and her sister Lisa
Rollow Justis '55.
         Renovations to Burrow Refectory, completed in 2012 provided 19,000 square
feet of additional space. The expanded facility includes a spacious exhibition-style
servery, three new private dining rooms, including The President's Dining Room,
given by Dr. Randall R. Rhea '77, in honor of President and Mrs. William Troutt and:
• The Lillian Goldman Hall provided by the Lillian Goldman Charitable Trust, Amy
Goldman Fowler and Cary Fowler '71.  
• The Wilson Fireside Lounge, provided through the generosity of Becky and Spence
Wilson.
The S. DeWitt Clough Hall, erected in memory of S. DeWitt Clough of Chicago, houses
the Departments of Anthropology/Sociology and Psychology. The Clough-Hanson Gallery
and the Department of Art are located in the Hugo H. Dixon Wing. Clough Hall was
dedicated October 14, 1970. A major renovation was completed in August 2013 to provide
additional classrooms and ofﬁce space.
Claire Markham Collins Meditation Garden, given 2005 by the family of Garnet J. Caldwell
'05 in memory of the Class of 1981 alumna.
Craddock Quad, a gift of he Craddock family, was named in 2014. The quad is bounded
by West Village, Glassell Hall, Catherine Burrow Refectory and Moore Moore Inﬁrmary.
Dan Davis Court was named in 2004 in memory of Rhodes benefactor and friend Dan W.
Davis, 1923-2002. The court is bounded by Robb Hall, Catherine Burrow Refectory and
Berthold S. Kennedy Hall.Matters of Record https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/311
80 of 85 7/25/23, 12:56 PM
James H. Daughdrill, Jr. Meditation Garden, dedicated April 28, 1999. Located to the
south of Fisher Garden, the Daughdrill Meditation Garden is a gift of the students of
Rhodes.
Diehl Court, dedicated on October 8, 1983, was provided by the Class of 1933 in gratitude
to Charles E. Diehl, President 1917-1949, and to his devoted administrative assistant
Erma Reese Solomon. The sculpture of President Diehl is by the artist Edwin Rust.
East Village, consisting of Buildings A and B, was opened in August 2001, and provides
apartment-styled living areas for juniors and seniors. East Village includes a Lodge that
provides space for recreation and meetings.
Ellett Residence Hall* was dedicated December 18, 1956, in memory of Dr. E. C. Ellett,
Memphis, an alumnus of Rhodes.
The Frazier Jelke Science Center, housing the Department of Biology, was dedicated
October 19, 1968, in memory of Mr. Frazier Jelke of New York. The plaza atop the Frazier
Jelke Science Center was re-landscaped in 2015.
The Hubert F. Fisher Memorial Garden was provided in 1941 by Mrs. Hubert F. Fisher as a
memorial to her husband, Congressman Fisher. The garden with its permanent stone
stage is the scene of commencement exercises and other college functions.
Alfred C. Glassell Residence Hall was dedicated May 2, 1968, in memory of Alfred C.
Glassell of Shreveport, Louisiana, an alumnus of Rhodes and a member of its Board of
Trustees 1929-1938 and 1943-1958.
Gooch Hall,* was erected in 1962 and dedicated on October 22, 1981, in memory of
Boyce Alexander and Cecil Milton Gooch. The building adjoins Southwestern Hall and the
Richard Halliburton Memorial Tower and houses the Ofﬁce of Finance and Business
Affairs, the Ofﬁces of the Academic Deans, and Ancient Mediterranean Studies.
The Richard Halliburton Memorial Tower,* provided by the late Mr. and Mrs. Wesley
Halliburton, Memphis, parents of the distinguished world traveler and author, was
dedicated October 17, 1962.The ﬁrst ﬂoor reception area formerly contained cases for
exhibits selected from the Jessie L. Clough Art Memorial for Teaching. A portion of the
funds required for its construction was provided by the late S. DeWitt Clough and his wife,
Rachel Clough, of Chicago. On October 11, 2011, the renovated reception area was
dedicated as The Nancy Hill Fulmer President's Ofﬁce, named in honor of the 1951
alumna and former Trustee.
The Frank M. Harris Memorial Building,* provided by the generosity of the late Mrs.
Nannie P. Harris, Memphis, as a perpetual memorial to her beloved son, Frank M. Harris,
was dedicated June 6, 1938. The building currently houses The Mike Curb Institute forMatters of Record https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/311
81 of 85 7/25/23, 12:56 PM
Music, founded in 2006 through a generous gift from the Mike Curb Family Foundation.
Hassell Hall, housing the Music Department, was a gift of the Hassell Family of Clifton,
Tennessee, and other friends and alumni of Rhodes. It contains the Tuthill Performance
Hall, dedicated in 2003 and named in memory of Burnet C. Tuthill, the College’s ﬁrst
Director of Music. The building was dedicated on April 27, 1984.
The Hunt Gateway* is a memorial to Captain William Ireys Hunt, M.D., Class of 1934. The
gift of the First Presbyterian Church, Greenville, Mississippi, this memorial was dedicated
on May 31, 1948.
Berthold S. Kennedy Hall,* erected in 1925, was remodeled in 1968 to house the
Department of Chemistry. It was dedicated on October 19, 1968 in honor of Rhodes
alumnus Dr. Berthold S. Kennedy, of Anna Maria, Florida.
Dorothy C. King Hall, formerly the national headquarters for Pi Kappa Alpha Fraternity, is
named in honor of Rhodes’ long-time friend and benefactor and houses the Meeman
Center for Lifelong Learning and the Ofﬁces of Development and Alumni. In 2014, the
Southwest Room was renamed the Edmund Orgill Room, in honor of the former Memphis
Mayor and College Trustee.
The Edward B. LeMaster Memorial Gateway, a symbol of the close ties between the
College and the city of Memphis, was dedicated in 1983 to the memory of the prominent
Memphian who was instrumental in the College’s move to Memphis.
The McCoy Theatre, given by the McCoy Foundation, established by the late Harry B.
McCoy, Jr., Memphis, in memory of his parents, Minetry and Harry McCoy, was dedicated
on January 21, 1982. Renovations which began in 2005 doubled the McCoy Theatre in
size, adding the McCoy Studio which is a second black-box theatre, and provided set
construction, wardrobe design and storage space, as well as classrooms and theatre
faculty ofﬁces. The new construction ofﬁcially opened on September 7, 2006. Originally
converted from a Zeta Tau Alpha sorority house, the intimate McCoy Theatre was named
in honor of the late Harry McCoy, a Memphis real estate developer who died in 1966. The
Harry B. McCoy Foundation funded the original renovations as well as the  new addition.
McNeill Concert Hall was dedicated on February 19, 2017 in honor of Mary and Phillip H.
McNeill in appreciation of the generosity of Mabel and Phil McNeill. Located on the West
Campus, McNeill Concert Hall hosts many of the college's premier concerts, lectures and
special events.
The Moore Moore Inﬁrmary,* made possible through a bequest of the late Dr. Moore
Moore, Sr., beloved College Physician and Secretary of the Board of Directors from 1925
until his death June 28, 1957, was dedicated June 2, 1962, as a memorial to his wife,
Ethel Shirley Moore.Matters of Record https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/311
82 of 85 7/25/23, 12:56 PM
Ohlendorf Hall, erected in 1968, was dedicated July 2, 1996, in honor of Rhodes Trustee
Harold F. Ohlendorf, Class of 1931, and his wife Bruce in grateful appreciation of their
service to the College. The building houses the Department of Mathematics and Computer
Science and the Buckman Mathematics Library, dedicated October 19, 1968, the gift of
the late Dr. Stanley Buckman and his associates at Buckman Laboratories, Inc.
Phillips Lane, the front entrance to the campus, was named in 1994 in honor of Weetie
and Harry Phillips of Memphis and in grateful appreciation of their vision, generosity and
devoted service to Rhodes.
The Physical Plant Building, erected in 1999, houses Physical Plant ofﬁces and the
Purchasing Department. The Frances Falls Austin Conference Room and Ofﬁce Complex,
given in memory of his mother by Memphis business and civic leader Falls Austin, was
dedicated in December, 2003.
The Peyton Nalle Rhodes Tower, erected in 1968, is named in honor of Rhodes Professor
of Physics (1926-1949), President (1949-1965) and President Emeritus (1965). The
building houses the Department of Physics and was dedicated on April 23, 1981. A
complete renovation was begun in 2014 and the building was reopened in May, 2015. The
renovations include The Brenda and J. Lester Crain,Jr. '51 Astronomy and Astrophysics
Laboratory. In addition, The Gladney Lounge and The Taylor-Hopper Seminar Room, were
given through the generosity of Dr. John Gladney '74.
Robb Residence Hall* was named in memory of Lt. Col. Albert Robb, attorney, who was a
member of the Board of Directors of Stewart College at the time the Presbyterian Church
assumed control of Montgomery Masonic College in 1855. In 1859, he donated the land
on which the ﬁrst residence for male students was erected in Clarksville, Tennessee,
where Rhodes was located until 1925.
Robertson Hall, completed in 2017, was dedicated in honor of Lola ’33 and Charles
Robertson, Sr. ’29 in appreciation of the generosity of Patricia and Charles Robertson, Jr.
’65. It houses the Biology and Chemistry departments.
Robinson Hall, completed in 1985, also serves as one of the College’s primary summer
conference residence facilities and contains space for 84 residents. It was dedicated on
December 17, 1989, in memory of James D. Robinson, Memphis business leader, founder
of Auto-Chlor, Inc.
The Rollow Avenue of Oaks, dedicated in 1976, were planted south of Southwestern Hall
as seedlings brought from the Clarksville campus by alumnus and college engineer John
A. Rollow, class of 1926.
Southwestern Hall was named April 12, 2019. Southwestern Hall was  formerly called
Palmer Hall,* named in honor of the contributions of Dr. Benjamin Morgan Palmer, who  forMatters of Record https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/311
83 of 85 7/25/23, 12:56 PM
many years was the pastor of the First Presbyterian Church, New Orleans. The building
was originally  dedicated November 27, 1925. Southwestern Hall is home to classrooms,
administrative ofﬁces and the Hardie Auditorium. In 2010, after extensive renovation,
Southwestern Hall became the home of faculty who teach courses in languages and
literature.
Spann Place, completed in 1987, was named in honor of the late Jeanette S. Spann,
Class of 1930 and Honorary Trustee of the College. This complex comprises ﬁve
townhouses for innovative student housing.
Stewart Residence Hall, formerly a faculty residence, is a student residence hall which
was most recently renovated in 2001. The building is named for William N. Stewart, a
former president and important leader in the early history of Rhodes College.
Thomas Lane, between Ashner Gateway and Kennedy Hall, was named in 1997 to honor
Nancy and James A. Thomas III, class of 1962, in recognition of their generosity and
service to Rhodes.
Margaret Townsend Residence Hall was dedicated June 3,1961, in honor of Margaret
Huxtable Townsend, a member of the Rhodes faculty from 1918 to 1954, and who was
Rhodes’ ﬁrst Dean of Women, serving in that capacity from 1925 to 1952. A Conservatory
for meetings and recreation was added in 2002 and is located in a courtyard formed by
Townsend, Trezevant and Voorhies Halls.
Suzanne Trezevant Residence Hall, given by Edward H. Little in memory of his wife,
Suzanne Trezevant Little, was dedicated on November 18, 1966.
The Bill and Carole Troutt Quad, honoring the College’s 19th President and First Lady,
was dedicated in 2017. The quad is bounded by the Paul Barret, Jr. Library, Robertson
Hall, Briggs Hall, and Hassell Hall.
Voorhies Residence Hall, provided through the generosity of the late Mrs. Emma Denie
Voorhies, Memphis, was dedicated April 10, 1948.
Lee B. Wailes Court, bounded by Halliburton Tower, Robb Hall, White Hall and Ashner
Gateway, is named in grateful recognition of the generosity of Lee B. Wailes, class of
1929, and was dedicated September 23, 1988.
West Village Rhodes newest residence hall, was opened in August, 2012. West Village
houses 141 upper-class students in twenty-two deluxe suites.
Gordon White Residence Hall,* a memorial to Dr. Gordon White, established by his sister,
the late Mrs. Lizzie Gordon White Hood, Nashville, Tennessee, was dedicated November
13, 1947.Matters of Record https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/311
84 of 85 7/25/23, 12:56 PM
The Williams Prayer Room, an intimate chapel in Voorhies Hall, was given in memory of
John Whorton and Anna Fletcher Williams by their children Sallie P. and Susan Fletcher
Williams. It was dedicated on April 10, 1948.
Anne Marie Caskey Williford Residence Hall, erected in 1969, was dedicated April 23,
1980, in memory of Anne Marie Williford, class of 1952, who was Dean of Women
(1968-1975) and Dean of Students from July 1, 1975, until her death July 19, 1979.
* Listed on The National Register of Historic Places, the ofﬁcial Federal list of districts,
sites, buildings, structures, and objects signiﬁcant in American history, architecture,
archeology, engineering, and culture.
Printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/matters-record/campusMatters of Record https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/311
85 of 85 7/25/23, 12:56 PM
Home »The Educational Program
Published on Rhodes College: Rhodes Catalogue (https://catalog.rhodes.edu/)
The Educational Program
Printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/educational-program
Academic Partnerships
There are some students who desire the beneﬁt of an undergraduate education in the
liberal arts and sciences prior to pursuing a more technical or specialized degree and
career. Such students are able to take advantage of several dual degree or second
degree programs arranged between Rhodes and other universities.
For those students who are interested in pursuing studies in engineering, Rhodes offers
three Dual Degree Programs. Dual Bachelor’s degree programs are offered in cooperation
with Washington University in St. Louis and Christian Brothers University (Memphis).
Masters programs in Electrical Engineering and Biomedical Engineering are offered in
cooperation with the University of Memphis. There is also a BS/BS/MS program available
through Washington University. Students outside the science disciplines are also
encouraged to combine those studies with engineering. The coordinator of these
programs at Rhodes is Dr. Ann Viano (Department of Physics), and students interested in
pursuing a dual degree engineering program should meet with her as early as possible in
their college careers.
In addition to dual degree programs, Rhodes also provides opportunities for students to
plan for post baccalaureate study within the medical sciences. These opportunities,
through The George Washington School of Medicine and Vanderbilt University are
coordinated by Ms. Jessica Kelso.
Dual  Degree Engineering Programs
Bachelor  or Master of Science in Engineering at Washington University
in St. Louis
Students can spend three or four years at Rhodes, and  then, after acceptance to the
McKelvey School of Engineering at Washington University, complete two or three years ofThe Educational Program https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/77
1 of 52 7/25/23, 12:56 PM
engineering study. In the dual bachelor's degree program, the student receives two
degrees, a BS (or BA) from Rhodes and a BS from Washington University after
completing a 3-2 or 4-2 plan (three or four years at Rhodes followed by two years at
Washington University). The student who pursues a Rhodes major in the Humanities,
Social Sciences, or Fine Arts will generally complete the Rhodes portion in four years,
applying elective hours to the Dual Degree core requirements. Students can also opt for a
3-3 plan that results in a BS from Rhodes and both a BS and MS from Washington
University. Financial aid does not transfer from Rhodes to Washington University for any
of the programs described above, but the student can apply for aid from Washington
University. More information about the dual degree options with Washington University
can be found here:  https://engineering.wustl.edu/academics/dual-degree-program
/index.html
To satisfy the Rhodes graduation requirements and the entrance requirements to
Washington University, all students must do the following:
1. Satisfy all Rhodes Foundations requirements as described earlier in this section of
the catalog.  
2. Take the following core courses required for admission into the McKelvey School of
Engineering at Washington University: Mathematics 112 (if necessary),  122, 223,
251; Chemistry 120, 125; Physics 111, 113, 112, 114; Computer Science 141. 
◦ For biomedical engineering add the following core courses: Biology 130, 131,
140, 141; a 2nd semester of general chemistry with lab.
◦ For chemical engineering add the following core courses: Biology 130, 131; a
2nd semester of general chemistry with lab.
3. Complete the modiﬁed major requirements  at Rhodes (if the chosen major is one
listed below). If the Rhodes major is not one listed below,  all major requirements
listed in the Rhodes catalog for the chosen major must be fulﬁlled, including senior
seminar.
◦ Chemistry Major/Chemical Engineering: Chemistry  211, 212, 240,  311, 312.
◦ Physics Major/Biomedical Engineering: Physics 211, 250, 305, 304 or 307;
Biology 140, 141.
◦ Physics Major/Electrical Engineering: Physics 211, 250, 301, 302, 304, 307 or
325.
◦ Physics Major/Mechanical Engineering: Physics 211, 250, 304, 305, 307.
◦ Computer Science Major/Computer Engineering: Computer Science 142, 241,The Educational Program https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/77
2 of 52 7/25/23, 12:56 PM
plus one of CS 330, 335, 355 or 360; Mathematics 201, and either Mathematics
311 or 370.
◦ Mathematics Major/System Science and Mathematics: Mathematics 201, 261,
311, 370, 465.
4. Maintain a GPA  (math/science and overall) of 3.25 at Rhodes for acceptance into the
BS/BS program or 3.50 for the BS/MS program at the Washington University.
Bachelor  of Science in Engineering at Christian Brothers University
This dual degree program is a 3-2 year plan of study that results in a Bachelor of
Science  from Rhodes and Bachelor of Science  in engineering  from Christian Brothers
University at the completion of ﬁve years of study. The student spends three years at
Rhodes and completes all foundation requirements and the modiﬁed major requirements
listed below for a major in physics, chemistry, or biochemistry/molecular biology,
depending on the course of engineering to be pursued. The student may also take select
courses at Christian Brothers University during this time. The student applies to the
engineering program at Christian Brothers University during the third year and becomes a
full-time CBU student for two additional years. Financial aid does not transfer from Rhodes
to Christian Brothers University.
To satisfy the Rhodes graduation requirements and the entrance requirements to Christian
Brothers University, all students must complete the following:
1. All Rhodes Foundation requirements with the following stipulations:
◦ One of the F1 courses should be a philosophy course.
◦ A minimum of 80 credits of the Rhodes BS portion must be fulﬁlled with Rhodes
courses.
2. The following pre-engineering core courses:
◦ Physics 111, 112, 113, 114
◦ Math 112 (if necessary), 122, 223, 251
◦ Chemistry 120, 125
3. The following additional Rhodes courses depending on the Rhodes major and course
of engineering study to be pursued at Christian Brothers University. Courses in
parentheses are CBU courses that are suitable substitutes for the Rhodes courses
and will satisfy the major requirements at Rhodes:The Educational Program https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/77
3 of 52 7/25/23, 12:56 PM
◦ Physics Major/Mechanical Engineering: Physics 211, 250, 304 (or CBU ECE
221), 305 (or CBU ME 202), 306 (or CBU program option course); Computer
Science 141 (or CBU ME 112)
◦ Physics Major/Civil Engineering: Physics 211, 213, 250, 304 (or CBU ECE 221),
305 (or CBU ME 202), 406 (or CBU ME 305); Computer Science 141 (or CBU
CE 112)
◦ Physics Major/Electrical Engineering – electrical engineering
curriculum:  Physics 211, 213, 250, 406 (or CBU ME 305), one upper level
physics elective at the 300 level or higher; Computer Science 141 (or CBU ECE
172)
◦ Chemistry Major/Chemical Engineering- chemical engineering curriculum:
Chemistry 211, 212, 240, 311, 312
◦ Biochemistry Molecular Biology Major/Chemical Engineering- biochemical
engineering curriculum: Biology 130, 131, 140. 141, 307, 325; Biochemistry and
Molecular Biology 310; Chemistry 211, 212, 240, 414
4. The following CBU courses should be taken during the ﬁrst three years of the
program through the Rhodes-CBU exchange program (the Crosstown Agreement),
depending on the Rhodes major and course of engineering study to be pursued at
Christian Brothers University:
◦ Physics Major/Mechanical Engineering: ME 121, ME 305
◦ Physics Major/Civil Engineering: CE 105, MATH 308
◦ Physics Major/Electrical Engineering - electrical engineering curriculum: ECE
221, ECE 222
◦ Chemistry Major or Biochemistry & Molecular Biology Major/Chemical
Engineering – either curriculum: CHE 231, CHE 232
5. A minimum GPA  of 2.5 at the time of application to Christian Brothers University is
required. Only grades of “C” or higher will transfer to Christian Brothers University
(“C-” and lower do not transfer).
Master of Science in Biomedical Engineering at The University of
Memphis / University of Tennessee
This accelerated program serves students who are interested in completing a Master ofThe Educational Program https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/77
4 of 52 7/25/23, 12:56 PM
Science degree in biomedical engineering (BME) and ideally are advanced in math and
science at the start of their Rhodes career. Students who participate in this program
complete both BS and MS degrees in ﬁve years. The typical student in this program takes
three years of coursework at Rhodes, and then completes two years of coursework and
masters thesis research in the joint program in biomedical engineering at the University of
Memphis / University of Tennessee. All students become eligible for graduate
assistantships after the completion of their undergraduate coursework. The graduate
assistantship includes a full tuition (for graduate courses only)-and-fees scholarship and
may include a monthly salary.  
Students can apply for this program once they have reached sophomore standing and
have completed one semester of coursework. Applications consist of an application form,
one letter of reference and a copy of the student’s transcript. Each applicant will be
required to complete an interview with a pre-graduate advisor. In order to remain in the
program past the junior year, students must maintain a GPA of at least 3.25.
The following requirements must be met to earn the two degrees:
1. Complete all Foundation requirements for the Rhodes degree.
2. Complete the following core courses: Mathematics 112 (if necessary), 122, 223, 251;
Computer Science 141; Chemistry 120, 125; Physics 111, 112, 113, 114
3. Complete the following requirements for the speciﬁc major chosen at Rhodes
◦ For the Chemistry major: Chemistry 211, 212, 240, 311, 312; Physics 304*,
305*.
◦ For the Physics major: Physics 211, 213, two approved courses at the 300-level
or higher*; a second semester of general chemistry from an institution offering a
year-long introductory chemistry sequence 
4. Complete the following additional undergraduate requirements at the University of
Memphis:
◦ Biomechanical Engineering 2810 (Introduction to Biomechanics/Mechanics of
Materials)
◦ Mechanics 3331 (Mechanics of Fluids)
◦ *If Physics 304 has not been taken, add EECE 2201 (Circuit Analysis I). If
Physics 305 has not been taken, add Mechanics 2332 (Dynamics). These
courses will be transferred to Rhodes. Additional undergraduate credits in
mathematics, science, or engineering may be transferred to meet requirement 5
below.The Educational Program https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/77
5 of 52 7/25/23, 12:56 PM
5. Complete the number of credits required for the Rhodes bachelor’s degree (from the
ﬁrst three years at Rhodes plus undergraduate courses transferred from UM).
Successful completion of requirements 1-5 is necessary to fulﬁll the requirements for
the B.S. degree.
6. Complete the following graduate courses at the University of Memphis and/or The
University of Tennessee:
◦ BIOM 7209 (Measurements and Instrumentation)
◦ BIOM 7101 (Biomedical Engineering Analysis I)
◦ BIOM 7004, 7005 (Life Science I, II)
◦ BIOM 7996, minimum 6 credits (MS Thesis)
◦ One additional graduate mathematics elective course and three additional
graduate engineering elective courses. These elective courses are selected in
consultation with the graduate advisor.
◦ Enrollment in the BME seminar/professional development course(s) is also
required.
◦ Students are expected to complete an oral thesis defense.
Master of Science in Electrical Engineering  at The University of
Memphis
This program serves students who are interested in completing a Bachelor’s degree with a
major in physics from Rhodes and a Master of Science degree in electrical engineering
from the University of Memphis. Students who participate in this program receive both
degrees after ﬁve years. The typical student in this program takes three years of
coursework at Rhodes, followed by two years of coursework and research at the
University of Memphis. All students become eligible for graduate assistantships after the
completion of their undergraduate coursework. The typical graduate assistantship includes
a full tuition-and-fees scholarship and a monthly salary.
Students can apply for this program once they have reached sophomore standing and
have completed one semester of course work beyond the ﬁrst year. In order to remain in
the program past the junior year, students must maintain a GPA of at least 3.25.
The following requirements must be met to earn the two degrees:
1. Complete all Rhodes Foundation requirements for the bachelor’s degree.The Educational Program https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/77
6 of 52 7/25/23, 12:56 PM
2. Complete the following Rhodes courses: Mathematics 112 (if necessary), 122, 223,
251; Computer Science 141; Physics 111, 112, 113, 114, Physics 250, Physics 304
(or equivalent)
3. Complete the following additional Rhodes courses (or equivalents) to complete the
physics major at Rhodes: Physics 211, 213, 301, 302
4. Complete 128 credits of undergraduate coursework from Rhodes, the University of
Memphis, and any other institutions.
5. Complete the following graduate courses for the planned electrical engineering
option:
◦ Memphis Signals and Systems Option
▪ An additional 18 graduate credits
▪ 6 credits of EECE 7996 (Thesis)
▪ EECE 7251 (Random Signals and Noise)
▪ EECE 6235 (Probabilistic Systems Analysis)
▪ EECE 3211 (Electronics I)
▪ EECE 3204 (Signals and Systems II)
▪ EECE 3203 (Signals and Systems I)
◦ Memphis Power Option
▪ EECE 3201 (Circuit Analysis II)
▪ EECE 3203 (Signals and Systems I)
▪ EECE 4201 (Energy Conversion)
▪ EECE 6235 (Probabilistic Systems Analysis)
▪ EECE 7251 (Random Signals and Noise)
▪ 6 credits of EECE 7996 (Thesis)
▪ An additional 15 graduate credits
6. The following courses or their equivalents are suggested as prerequisites to theThe Educational Program https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/77
7 of 52 7/25/23, 12:56 PM
University of Memphis portion of the program: EECE 2222 (Digital Circuits), EECE
2201 (Circuit Analysis I)
Second Degree Programs
George Washington School of Medicine Early Assurance Program
Qualiﬁed sophomores can apply for a commitment for acceptance to the George
Washington School of Medicine following their graduation from Rhodes. This program
allows students to use all four years at Rhodes to take prerequisite courses that would
normally need to be completed in the ﬁrst three years of college if going straight to
medical school. This agreement allows a student to more easily study abroad or take part
in special semester programs and projects while working towards a career in medicine.
The contact person for this program is Ms. Jessica Kelso.
University of Tennessee Health Science Center BSN and Doctor of
Nursing Practice Admission Agreement
Rhodes Students are eligible for guaranteed admission to the University of Tennessee
Health Science Center College of Nursing to pursue training as a Registered Nurse and a
Nurse Practitioner. Students also have the option of completing a PhD in nursing. This
guaranteed admission pathway includes an accelerated 12 month BSN followed by
training for certiﬁcation and licensure as a Family Nurse Practitioner or one of several
other advanced nursing specialties. The contact person for this program is Ms. Jessica
Kelso.  
Vanderbilt University Master of Science in Nursing Prerequisite
Agreement
The Vanderbilt School of Nursing, in agreement with Rhodes College, allows for all but
one of their program’s prerequisite courses to be completed with Rhodes course work. An
additional online nutrition course is needed. The Vanderbilt School of Nursing offers an
accelerated path to master’s level advanced practice nursing, i.e. to become a nurse
practitioner or midwife. The contact person for this path is Ms. Jessica Kelso.
Georgetown University Master of Arts in Latin American Studies
Rhodes students are eligible to apply for a Five-Year Cooperative Degree Program offered
by Georgetown University’s Center for Latin American Studies (CLAS). The program
allows undergraduates with a demonstrated commitment to Latin American Studies the
opportunity to earn a Bachelor’s degree and a Master of Arts in Latin American Studies in
ﬁve years. Dr. Elizabeth Pettinaroli  is the contact person for information on thisThe Educational Program https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/77
8 of 52 7/25/23, 12:56 PM
opportunity.
Printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/educational-program/academic-partnerships
Academic Regulations
The Board of Trustees vests responsibility for curriculum, instruction, and the regulation of
academic affairs with the President and the Faculty. They in turn allocate this responsibility
and implement it through various committees and individuals.
Three committees are chieﬂy responsible for regulating the academic program. The
Educational Program Committee, which includes students in its membership, is
responsible for the overall academic program, including requirements for the degree and
departmental offerings. The Foundations Curriculum Committee, which also includes
students in its membership, is responsible for the overseeing coursework that satisﬁes
Foundations requirements. The Standards and Standing Committee has broad
responsibility, subject to faculty review, to frame and implement procedures to insure that
the instructional standards and aims of the College are met.
The regulations that follow are not comprehensive but are included here for the sake of
easy reference by faculty and students. Any variation from academic regulations requires
the formal approval of the Faculty. Students submit requests for variations from academic
regulations to the appropriate faculty committees that make recommendations to the
faculty. Requests for reconsideration of faculty decisions in light of new evidence will be
considered by the committees making the initial recommendations.
Registration and Course Load
All students are required to register for classes during the Pre-Registration/Registration
processes held prior to the ﬁrst day of classes each semester. No late registrations will be
accepted after the end of the Drop/Add period in any semester or summer term.
Fall or Spring Semester Registration and Course Load
Qualiﬁcation as a full-time, degree student requires registration for a minimum of twelve
(12) credits in a semester. A normal course load for a full-time student is 16 credits.
Registration for fewer than 12 or more than 19 credits by a full-time student must be
approved in advance by the Standards and Standing Committee. Students must be aware
that in order to earn the total credits for a degree, sixteen credits in each of the eight
semesters is needed. Less than 16 credits in any one semester must be matched by more
than 16 credits in another semester or by summer session credits.
Degree-seeking students who register for eleven (11) credits or less in any one semesterThe Educational Program https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/77
9 of 52 7/25/23, 12:56 PM
are classiﬁed as part-time students. It should be noted that students living in the residence
hall must pay the full comprehensive tuition, regardless of the number of credits taken in
the semester. Part-time students are not eligible to live in the residence halls; however,
pending the availability of rooms and approval by the Dean of Students, part-time students
may be allowed residence in College residence halls. Part-time status also affects
eligibility for ﬁnancial aid and intercollegiate athletics.  Computation of the total credits
permitted per semester includes directed inquiries and concurrent enrollment at other
consortium institutions. Direct registration at another institution may not be counted toward
the full-time enrollment status.
First-year students may take up to four 4-credit courses and up to three additional credits
each semester of their ﬁrst year. A year’s residence with satisfactory grades is the usual
prerequisite for taking more than the maximum number of courses.
Degree students may obtain permission to audit no more than one course per semester,
without payment of fee, by agreement with the professor concerned. Audited courses are
not included in the number of credits carried, nor are they recorded on the permanent
record. Special, non-degree students (those students not seeking a degree) may enroll in
more than eight (8) credits only with the permission of the Dean of Admission.
Summer Term Registration and Course Load
Students may register in 4 credits in each 5-week session of summer term.  Registration
in more than 4 credits in a 5-week session requires approval by the Registrar.  Students
may carry no more than 12 credits in a summer term.
Foundation Courses
Only certain courses in the Rhodes curriculum and in each department are approved to
meet Foundation requirements. Each of these courses is designated in the course
description in this catalog and on the class schedule for each semester online. It is the
student’s responsibility to be aware of what courses in which they may be enrolled satisfy
foundation requirements. Such courses are submitted by faculty members to the
Foundations Curriculum Committee for approval. It is not possible for students to request
foundation credit approval by the Committee for any coursework with the exception of
Foundation 11. Self-initiated requests for F11 credit for certain coursework or experiences
may be requested using the appropriate form available online.
Course Prerequisites and Co-requisites
Course prerequisites and co-requisites are requirements for entry into a course that state
the background, experience, or related coursework that is needed for success in that
course and to establish a relative order in which certain courses need to be taken.The Educational Program https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/77
10 of 52 7/25/23, 12:56 PM
These requirements are set by the department based on experience and judgment.
Students are responsible for knowing the prerequisites or co-requisites of any courses for
which they register. Students who register for courses for which they do not meet such
prerequisites may be asked to drop those courses from their schedules.
A prerequisite is a requirement that must be met in advance of taking the course. If the
prerequisite is stated as a course by number, then that course must have been completed
satisfactorily at Rhodes or accepted by Rhodes as transfer credit from another institution
before the student can enroll in the desired course.
A co-requisite is a requirement that must be met at the same time as the course is being
taken if that requirement has not already been met. If the co-requisite is stated as a
numbered course, then that co-requisite course must be taken at the same time or credit
for the co-requisite course must have already been earned.
A linked co-requisite is a course requirement that must be taken at the same time as the
course to which it is linked. In most cases, the linked co-requisite courses will be a three-
credit lecture course and a one-credit laboratory. Enrollment in one linked co-requisite
course is permitted if the course has been failed previously, or is eligible to be repeated
due to a ﬁnal grade. If enrollment in one linked co-requisite is discontinued either by
dropping or withdrawing, a student may not continue enrollment in the other linked course.
Successful completion of both linked courses is required in order for a foundation
requirement to be met.
In some cases, a prerequisite may not be stated in terms of a numbered course. For
example, a prerequisite may be “a designated course or permission of instructor” or
“Permission of the department.” In some cases, a prerequisite may require a speciﬁc class
standing, e.g. “Junior or Senior class standing” or “First-year students only.” These
conditions express ﬂexible arrangements that a department may use to manage course
prerequisites. “Permission of the instructor” is the most ﬂexible and requires that the
student receive the approval of the instructor before enrolling in that course. A student
who does not meet a speciﬁc course-numbered prerequisite for a desired course must get
permission of the department prior to enrolling in that course. Students not meeting a
speciﬁc class standing requirement may be asked to drop the courses from their
schedules.
Class Standing
Under the foundations curriculum, a minimum of 30 credits are required for admission to
the Sophomore class, 63 credits for admission to the Junior class, and 96 credits for
admission to the Senior class. It should be noted that a minimum of 32 credits must be
earned per year in order to accumulate the 128 credits needed for graduation in four
years.The Educational Program https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/77
11 of 52 7/25/23, 12:56 PM
Class Attendance
Rhodes, as a residential college of the liberal arts and sciences, considers interactive
engagement with other students and the professor, in a structured setting, to be one of the
essential and central components of the academic program. Students enrolled at the
institution make a commitment to participate fully in their education, which includes
attending class. Absenteeism is not to be taken lightly.
Any student who fails to attend the ﬁrst day of a class without providing prior notice of his
or her absence to the instructor of the course or the chairperson of the department may be
asked to drop the course upon request of the instructor. The student is responsible for
dropping the class ofﬁcially upon notiﬁcation that such action has been taken.
Speciﬁc attendance policies are set by individual instructors, who state them in the course
syllabus and during the ﬁrst class session. Faculty should be mindful in setting attendance
policies that college-sanctioned activities may require participating students to be off
campus and consequently miss class. Faculty are discouraged from penalizing students
solely for such absence and should normally, at their discretion, accommodate such a
student (e.g., an alternate date for a test.) However, it is the student’s responsibility in
undertaking college-sanctioned activities (e.g., varsity athletics, internships, and off-
campus competitions connected with courses) to understand that their participation may
come at the cost of absences from other courses or even forfeiting credit on certain
assignments when making them up is not feasible. If, in accordance with the course
policies, the instructor determines that excessive absences are jeopardizing a student’s
ability to obtain a passing grade in the course, the instructor may make written request to
the Dean of the Faculty that the student be removed from the course with a grade of F. If a
student is removed from two or more courses in the same semester for this reason, the
student may be asked to withdraw from the College.
Mandatory attendance at events outside of the regularly scheduled class period (e.g.,
lectures, seminars, concerts) will normally be included in the syllabus at the start of the
semester, and will usually include some scheduling ﬂexibility so that students may make
informed decisions regarding their co-curricular educational and employment
commitments. If exams or additional class sessions are scheduled outside of the regular
class period, faculty members will give alternative times so that students may honor out-
of-class educational and employment commitments if possible.
Class Preparation
A student is expected to spend a minimum of forty-six hours of academic study for every
enrolled credit. This principle applies to tutorial and directed inquiry study as well as to
regular course work during the academic year. Time spent on a per assignment basis will
vary depending on the nature of the class assignments; however, on an average, a
minimum of ten hours per week outside of class is expected for active preparation for aThe Educational Program https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/77
12 of 52 7/25/23, 12:56 PM
four-credit course.
Schedule Changes
During the ﬁrst week of classes in each semester, or the ﬁrst two days during a 5-week
summer session, courses may be added (based on seat availability) and/or dropped from
a student’s schedule. Students may drop full semester classes until the end of the third
week of a fall or spring semester, or the 5th day of class in a 5-week summer term
session. The drop/add period for those courses that run during one of the 7-week
sessions within the semester will be during the 1st week of that session only. No extended
drop period exists for these partial semester courses. Approval of a course underload
must be obtained if the resulting course load is less than 12 credits. No credit will be
awarded retroactively for courses for which a student failed to register properly, including
physical education.
Any student who fails to attend the ﬁrst day of class without providing prior notice of his or
her absence to the instructor of the course or the chairperson of the department may be
removed from the course upon notiﬁcation of the instructor to the Registrar.
The student is then responsible for then dropping the course.
Withdrawal From Class
Students withdrawing from a course between the beginning of the fourth week and the
end of the eleventh  week of a semester will receive a grade of W  (withdrew). Students
withdrawing from a course between the 6th day and the 18th day of a 5-week summer
session will receive a grade of W.   The W grade is not computed in the student’s grade
point average.
Withdrawal from a course is not ofﬁcial until the appropriate form with all required
approvals is submitted by the student to the Registrar’s Ofﬁce. A request to withdraw from
a class which does not receive the approval of the instructor and the faculty advisor may
be appealed to the Standards and Standing Committee.
The request to withdraw from a class after the stated deadline requires the approval of the
Standards and Standing Committee in addition to the approvals of the instructor and the
student’s faculty adviser. Students are expected to continue to attend classes until there is
ofﬁcial notice that the request for withdrawal from class has been approved. No request
for withdrawal from a class will be considered after the last day of classes.
Unauthorized withdrawal from any class constitutes a failure in the course. A student who
withdraws from all courses in a semester is considered to be withdrawn from the college
and must follow the appropriate procedure described below.
No student will be permitted to withdraw from a course in which he or she is underThe Educational Program https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/77
13 of 52 7/25/23, 12:56 PM
investigation for violating the Honor Code until the alleged violation has been adjudicated.
A student may not withdraw from a course in which he or she has been found “In
Violation” of the Honor Code.
Interruption of Participation in the College
It is not uncommon for some students faced with family circumstances, health or other
problems, or academic difﬁculty to consider interrupting participation in the College for a
semester or longer. Students who ﬁnd themselves in such situations are encouraged to
confer with their academic advisers, the College Counseling Ofﬁce, or Student Life to
discuss the variety of options available and the implications, advantages, and
disadvantages of these options (personal, academic, and ﬁnancial.)
Leave of Absence
Application for and the granting of a Leave of Absence indicates a continuing relationship
between the student and the College. Students may decide to apply for a Leave of
Absence for a wide variety of reasons and the terms of the Leave of Absence granted are
designed to reﬂect the individual’s needs and circumstances. These terms range from the
resumption of studies at the time speciﬁed without further approval by College authorities
to the requirement that the student satisfy the College that conditions are now such that
the individual is likely to succeed and prosper on return.
A Leave of Absence is granted only for one or two full semesters, and a student must
make the request for a Leave of Absence in writing in advance to the Faculty Standards
and Standing Committee. Students should obtain the necessary information and forms
from the Dean of Student ofﬁce. Students who are granted a Leave of Absence must
contact the Dean of Student ofﬁce in order to initiate the normal process of leaving
campus.
A Leave of Absence is not normally granted for periods in excess of one year. A Leave of
Absence is not given for the purpose of studying at another institution nor can it be given
to students who are not in good academic standing. If circumstances warrant, a student
may be approved to enroll in up to two courses at another institution while on leave.
Students on Leave must return to the College at the speciﬁed time or be deemed to have
withdrawn from the College necessitating application for readmission.
Withdrawal from the College
In some instances, a student may decide not to apply for a Leave of Absence but to
withdraw from the College. Students who decide to withdraw from the College, either
during or at the end of a semester, must contact the Dean of Students ofﬁce in order to
initiate the withdrawal process. A letter of withdrawal must be ﬁled with Student Life and
the entire withdrawal process completed before the student can be ofﬁcially withdrawn
from the College.The Educational Program https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/77
14 of 52 7/25/23, 12:56 PM
Students who decide to return to the College after having withdrawn must apply for
readmission. If a student withdraws from the College during or at the end of a semester, it
is expected that readmission, if approved, will not take place until one full academic
semester has lapsed. Applications for readmission are available from Rhodes Express.
(See also “Voluntary Withdrawal and Removal from Campus” in the Campus Regulations
and “Readmission of Students” in the Admissions section of this catalogue.)
Examinations
The Honor Code represents what the students, the faculty, and the administration believe
to be the best environment for the pursuit of the College’s educational aims. All tests and
examinations are conducted under the Honor Code, and students are asked to indicate on
their tests and ﬁnal examinations that they have abided by the principles contained in the
Honor Code.
Normally every course for which credit is given has a ﬁnal examination as a component.
Final examinations are intended to assess students’ mastery of the subject matter of the
course and are normally comprehensive in scope. In some courses the purposes of a ﬁnal
examination are best served by special testing: take-home examinations, departmentally
administered oral examinations, special projects and assignments, for example. Whatever
the testing method, the important factor is that students are asked to synthesize major
concepts, approaches, and facts from the course, and to demonstrate that they can do
this on their own.
Final examinations are given during the examination week according to the published
schedule. A student with three examinations in a row (not to include reading days) may
petition the Dean of the Faculty to re-schedule no more than two examinations for later
times in the examination period. Other changes because of extenuating circumstances
(e.g. illness) must also be approved by the professor and the Dean. A professor may offer
optional exam times for an entire class within the examination period, except for a
Reading Day. Each member of the class must choose one of the optional times at least
one week before the ﬁrst day of examinations. The feasibility of implementing this option is
left to the professor’s discretion. If exams are scheduled outside of the regular class
period, students should be given alternative times which accommodate their other
commitments.
A student who has a failing average on course work may be counseled before the ﬁnal
examination about the status of that work and about the role the ﬁnal examination will play
in determining the ﬁnal grade, but the student is not excluded from taking the ﬁnal
examination. A student who has a passing average on course work but fails the ﬁnal
examination, and as a result has a failing average for the course, may be permitted to take
a re-examination at the discretion of the instructor. The conditional grade of E
(reexamination) is given in this case. The reexamination must be taken no later than theThe Educational Program https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/77
15 of 52 7/25/23, 12:56 PM
end of the second week of classes of the following semester.
A student who has a passing average on course work and who fails the ﬁnal examination,
but who earns a passing ﬁnal grade, may be given the appropriate letter grade for the
course.
Unexcused absence from a ﬁnal examination automatically results in failure in the course.
A student who is prevented by illness or other reason from taking the ﬁnal examination at
the scheduled time must present a written excuse or doctor’s certiﬁcate and will be given a
conditional grade of X (incomplete). In some courses, due to the lesser weight given to the
ﬁnal examination in determining the ﬁnal grade for the course, a professor may not wish to
give the grade of F for an unexcused absence or the grade of X in the event of an
excused absence. The professor’s policy on this matter is made clear at the beginning of
the course so that there is no misunderstanding and so that it is clear that this situation is
an exception to the general college policy. Consult the section on Conditional Grades for
policies governing E and X grades.
Conditional Grades: Reexaminations and Incompletes
A student with a grade of E (see Examinations) must notify the Registrar at least one
week in advance of the scheduled time that the reexamination will be attempted. If the
student passes the reexamination, a grade of D-, D, or D+ will be earned, unless the
course was taken Pass/Fail, in which case the grade of P will be recorded. Seniors in the
ﬁnal semester of attendance may be eligible for reexamination without delay, at the
discretion of the professor, if they fail a ﬁnal examination and are given an E grade.
The grade of X (incomplete) may be requested by a student who is unable to complete
coursework because of circumstances beyond their reasonable control (e.g., illness, injury,
incapacitation, or other emergency). The conditions for requesting an incomplete are as
follows:
• The student should have a passing grade either at midterm or at the time of the
petition.
• The amount of unﬁnished coursework, including any ﬁnal exam, should not exceed
that assigned in a typical three-week period during a full semester (or an equivalent
interval within a summer-session course).
• The petition must be agreed to by all parties involved (student/professor/adviser) by
the course's assigned ﬁnal exam day and no earlier than the ﬁnal three weeks of the
semester. (The completed form itself must be submitted either electronically or in
hard copy no later than the ﬁnal grade due date.)
All unﬁnished work must be completed and submitted to the course instructor before the
ﬁrst day of classes in the student's next term of enrollment (fall, spring, or summer).
Students returning to Rhodes after an approved Leave of Absence or an off-campus studyThe Educational Program https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/77
16 of 52 7/25/23, 12:56 PM
program must also have resolved all incompletes prior to this start date. Faculty must
have a ﬁnal grade turned in to the Registrar by the end of the last day of the term's
drop/add period. If there are other circumstances that should be taken into account, they
should be addressed prior to signing the form; and acceptable completion date must be
agreed upon by all parties, but no later than the third week of the following semester.
If none of the student's incomplete work is submitted before the day classes begin in their
next enrolled term, the conditional grade (X) will be converted automatically to the
provisional grade submitted by faculty on the Conditional Grade Report Form. If illness or
other extraordinary circumstances prevent a student from meeting this deadline for
submission of unﬁnished work, then a petition requesting an extension must be submitted
to and approved by the Standards and Standing Committee prior to the deadline for
submission of the work.
Grades and Grade Points
In ofﬁcial recording of academic work, the following symbols are employed: A, excellent;
B, good; C, satisfactory; D, passing; P, pass; E, re-examination; X, incomplete; IP, course
in progress; F, failure; W, withdrew; NG, grade not submitted by professor. E and X grades
are conditional and may be removed. The grades of B, C, and D are employed with plus
and minus notations. The grade of A is employed with the minus notation.
Grade points are used to determine a student’s grade point average. The number of grade
points awarded per credit hour for each grade is as follows:
GradeGrade Pts Grade Grade Pts
A 4.0 C 2.0
A- 3.7 C- 1.7
B+ 3.3 D+ 1.3
B 3.0 D 1.0
B- 2.7 D- 0.7
C+ 2.3 F 0.0
The total number of grade points earned for all courses are divided by the number of
credits attempted in order to calculate the grade point average. Credits with a grade of
Pass are not included in the determination of the grade point average although those
credits with a grade of Fail are included. The grade  of W  is not computed in the grade
point average. Conditional grades earn no quality points and no credits until they are
removed. Credit and grade points earned by students who return for additional courseThe Educational Program https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/77
17 of 52 7/25/23, 12:56 PM
work after receiving a degree are not computed with the ﬁnal degree grade point average.
Instead, a new grade point average is computed for all work attempted after receiving a
degree.
The major grade point average is computed using the same formula as above. In
computing the grade point average in the major department, all courses taken in the major
department, not just those courses required for the major, and any required cognate
courses in other departments are used.
Pass-Fail
A student may enroll in a class on a pass-fail basis with the permission of the instructor.
No more than one course per semester with a maximum of six courses total is permitted.
Courses that are graded pass-fail only do not count against that limitation. The Pass/Fail
option may not be used in courses taken to satisfy foundation requirements with the
exception of F11 and may not be used for courses taken to satisfy major or minor
requirements including cognate courses.
The student wishing to take a course on a pass-fail basis must determine from the
instructor the letter grade equivalent and the requirements for a grade of Pass. The pass-
fail form with the instructor’s signature must be returned to Rhodes Express during the ﬁrst
eleven weeks of class in a semester.
Courses with grades of Pass count neither for nor against a student in the computation of
grade point averages, but a failing grade is computed in the grade point averages.
Grade Reports
Reports of student’s grades are available online on the Rhodes website at mid-semester
and at the end of each semester. Students are responsible for keeping other family
members correctly and currently informed of their academic standing and progress.
Honor Roll and Dean’s List
An Honor Roll and a Dean’s List are compiled at the end of each semester. To be
considered for Honor Roll or Dean’s List, a student must be enrolled in at least 16 credits
of academic work. To qualify for the Honor Roll, a student must achieve a semester grade
point average of 3.85 or better. To qualify for the Dean’s List, a student must achieve a
semester grade point average of 3.70 or better. Those students who choose to take a
course under the Pass/Fail option must have a minimum of 12 (twelve) additional graded
credits of work to be considered for either of these honors. Students who are enrolled in
the Honors Program or independent Research and receive a grade of IP for that work will
have their qualifying grade point average determined on all other graded work.
Academic Good StandingThe Educational Program https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/77
18 of 52 7/25/23, 12:56 PM
Students are considered to be in Academic Good Standing unless they are on Academic
Probation or Suspension. Rhodes Express will send statements to that effect to other
institutions in order for current Rhodes students to attend summer sessions or other
programs.
Academic Probation and Suspension
To graduate, a student must have an overall grade point average of 2.00  (C) for all work
attempted and for all work attempted in the major department. A student is subject to
academic probation if the major grade point average falls below 2.00. A student is subject
to academic probation or suspension if the cumulative grade point at the end of any
semester or summer term falls below a minimum standard, which is dictated by the
number of cumulative credits the student has earned. The cumulative standards are as
follows:
Number of Credits
EarnedMinimum GPA to Avoid
SuspensionMinimum GPA to Avoid
Probation
0-30 1.50 1.60
31-63 1.70 1.80
64-96 1.90 2.00
97 or more 2.00 2.00
In addition, a student is subject to probation in any semester in which the student earns
fewer than twelve (12) credits and earns a grade point average of less than 1.50. NOTE:
Students placed on probation due to semester grade point average who also enroll in
summer courses at Rhodes will have their records reviewed at the end of the summer
term. If they earn a minimum of four (4) Rhodes College credits with a minimum summer
term grade point average of 2.00, they may be returned to good standing. The summer
term grade point average is deﬁned as the aggregate grade point average of all Rhodes
summer work.  
A student on academic probation is not considered to be in good academic standing. Such
students are ineligible to participate in some extracurricular activities, including
intercollegiate athletics. A student is removed from academic probation upon attainment of
the minimum standard grade point average based on the number of credits earned.
After being placed on academic probation, a student may be continued on academic
probation for no more than two consecutive semesters. At the end of the third consecutive
semester on academic probation, the student must be removed from probation or placed
on academic suspension.The Educational Program https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/77
19 of 52 7/25/23, 12:56 PM
Academic suspension may be imposed at the end of the fall or spring semester. Fees will
not be refunded or remitted, in whole or in part, in the event of a suspension imposed by
the College.
The period of suspension is one semester. Summer term does not fulﬁll this suspension
period.  Following suspension, a student may apply for readmission. Any student placed
on academic suspension by the College for a second time may not be readmitted.
No credit may be transferred for work done at another institution during the period of
academic suspension.
A student has the right to request reconsideration of academic suspension. The Faculty
Standards and Standing Committee considers the request. The Committee may allow the
student to continue on academic probation into the next academic semester under
speciﬁed conditions for academic achievement if it ﬁnds that the failure to achieve
academically was due principally to extenuating circumstances and that the student has
taken appropriate measures to ensure future academic success.
Semester grade point averages are affected by the conditional grades of X and E. The
above provisions will apply when either of these grades is on the record in question. The
action to suspend or be placed on academic probation may be delayed until it is
determined what the grade point average will be when the conditional grades are
removed.
Repeating a Course Because of Grade
Any student who has received a grade of D-, D, or D+ in a course may repeat the course
for a higher grade. No additional credit may be earned when repeating a course for a
higher grade. Any student who has failed a course may repeat the course for credit.
The credits attempted and the grade points earned for each attempt of the course are
included in the calculation of the student’s major grade point average and cumulative
grade point average. However, only one failure of a course will be calculated in the grade
point averages.
Grade Queries and Appeals
There is no more fundamental relationship in an academic program than that of the
instructor and student. The Faculty and its academic ofﬁcers work to support and to
sustain a meaningful and productive instructor-student relationship to secure the
educational aims of the College and of the members of its Faculty. Clearly the relationship
is not one between equals, and this is most clearly evident when the instructor must
assign a grade for the work required of, or expected of, a student.
Grade Queries. On occasion a student may believe that a grade assigned is incorrect. TheThe Educational Program https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/77
20 of 52 7/25/23, 12:56 PM
student has the right to initiate a discussion with the instructor to determine that the grade
given is in fact correct. If a mistake has been made, the instructor changes the grade and
requests that the Associate Dean of Academic Affairs direct the Registrar to change a
grade that has been ofﬁcially entered on the student’s academic record.
Grade Appeals. In the event that, after consulting with the instructor, the student is not
satisﬁed that a grade has been assigned fairly, the student may write an explanation of
why he or she believes the grade assigned is not justiﬁed. The student gives this
statement to the instructor, who may decide that the explanation warrants a
reconsideration of the grade assigned. If the instructor decides not to change the assigned
grade and discussion with the student does not result in the student’s agreement with this
decision, the instructor asks the department chair to review the procedures for determining
grades in the course, the student’s request, and the instructor’s response to it. The faculty
member provides a written statement to the department chair about why the original grade
is valid. Should the chair of the department determine that no lapse in procedure has
occurred and that full attention has been given to the explanation by the instructor, the
matter is closed. The chair of the department communicates this decision to the student
and the instructor. Should the chair of the department determine that the procedure was
not properly followed or that additional attention to the explanation is warranted, the chair
discusses the situation with the instructor or the chair may obtain additional evaluations of
the student’s work. These evaluations may be requested from colleagues within the
Faculty whose knowledge and expertise are appropriate to a review of the student’s work.
Having completed this additional evaluation, the chair’s determination about the grade
closes the matter. The chair of the department communicates this ﬁnal decision to the
student, the instructor, and the Associate Dean of Academic Affairs.
Special Provisions. The period of time during which appeals of ﬁnal grades can be made
expires at the end of the fourth week of the semester following the posting of the grade.
In the event that appeals for reconsideration of grades involves grades assigned by a
chair of a department, then the appeal procedure will be conducted by the senior member
of the department, or the next senior member of the department in the event that the chair
is the senior member. In instances where there are no other senior members in the
department, the Associate Dean of Academic Affairs will oversee the inquiry.
The provisions outlined above are meant to apply to situations in which appeals for
reconsideration of grades are made by students. If a student’s complaint involves a belief
that he or she has been discriminated against because of the practices in managing a
course, the Dean of the Faculty is the administrative ofﬁcer to receive any such complaint.
It may be that the Dean will ask that the general provisions above be followed in an
investigation of possible discrimination.
TranscriptsThe Educational Program https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/77
21 of 52 7/25/23, 12:56 PM
Complete college records for each student are kept by the Registrar. Requests for
transcripts must be in writing. Requests received via fax machine will be accepted
although transcripts will not be transmitted via the fax. No transcript will be issued to
students, current or past, whose ﬁnancial accounts are delinquent.
Family Education Rights and Privacy Act
The Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act of 1974, as amended, is a Federal law
which states (a) that a written institutional policy must be established and (b) that a
statement of adopted procedures covering the privacy rights of students be made
available. The law provides that the institution will maintain the conﬁdentiality of student
education records.
Rhodes College accords all the rights under the law to enrolled students. No one outside
the institution shall have access to nor will the institution disclose any information from
students’ education records without the written consent of students except to personnel
within the institution as deﬁned below, to ofﬁcials of other institutions in which student seek
to enroll, to persons or organizations providing students ﬁnancial aid, to agencies carrying
out their accreditation function, to persons in compliance with a judicial order, and to
persons in an emergency in order to protect the health or safety of students or other
persons. All these exceptions are permitted under the Act. Only those members of the
Rhodes College community, individually or collectively, acting in the students’ educational
interest are allowed access to student education records. These members include
personnel in the Ofﬁce of the Registrar including student workers in that ofﬁce, and the
professional staff of the Ofﬁce of Student Affairs, Financial Aid, Institutional Research, and
College ofﬁcials with a legitimate educational interest as determined by the Registrar. A
College ofﬁcial may be determined to have legitimate educational interest if the
information requested or released is necessary for the ofﬁcial to (a) perform appropriate
tasks that are speciﬁed in his or her position description or by a contractual agreement; (b)
perform a task related to a student’s education; (c) perform a task related to the discipline
of the student; or (d) provide a service or beneﬁt relating to the student or student’s family,
such as health care, counseling, job placement, or ﬁnancial aid.
At its discretion the institution may provide Directory Information in accordance with the
provisions of the Act including student name, parents’ names, campus and home
addresses and telephone numbers, cellular phone number, email address, photograph,
dates of attendance, year of graduation, degree and honors awarded or expected,
academic major, and faculty adviser. Students may withhold Directory Information by
notifying the Registrar in writing at least sixty days prior to the ﬁrst day of class for the fall
semester. Requests for non-disclosure will be honored by the institution for only one
academic year; therefore, authorization to withhold Directory Information must be ﬁled
annually.The Educational Program https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/77
22 of 52 7/25/23, 12:56 PM
The law provides students with the right to inspect and review information contained in
their education records, to challenge the contents of their education records, to have a
hearing if the outcome of the challenge is unsatisfactory, and to submit explanatory
statements for inclusion in their ﬁles if the decisions of the hearing panels are
unacceptable. The Registrar at Rhodes College has been designated by the institution to
coordinate the inspection and review procedures for student educational records, which
include admissions, personal, academic, and ﬁnancial ﬁles, and academic and placement
records. Students wishing to review their education records must make written requests to
the Registrar listing the item or items of interest. Only records covered by the
Act will be made available within forty-ﬁve days of the request.
In addition, the law only affords students a right to copies of their education records if a
denial of copies would effectively prevent the students from exercising the right to inspect
and review the records. Therefore, students may have copies made of their records with
certain exceptions. The College reserves the right to deny copies of records, including
academic transcripts, not required to be made available by FERPA in any of the following
situations:
1. The student lives within commuting distance of the school;
2. The student has an unpaid ﬁnancial obligation to the school;
3. There is an unresolved disciplinary action against the student;
4. The education record requested is an exam, or set of standardized test questions;
5. The education record requested is a transcript of an original or source document
which exists elsewhere.
Education records do not include records of instructional, supervisory, administrative, and
educational personnel which are the sole possession of the maker and are not accessible
or revealed to any individual except a temporary substitute. Other records not included are
those of the campus safety department, student health records, employment records
(except those records of student workers), or alumni records. Health records, however,
may be reviewed by physicians of the students’ choosing.
Students may not inspect and review the following as outlined by the Act: ﬁnancial
information submitted by their parents; conﬁdential letters and recommendations
associated with admission to the College, employment or job placement, or honors to
which they have waived their rights of inspection and review; or education records
containing information about more than one student, in which case the institution will
permit access only to that part of the record which pertains to the inquiring student. The
institution is not required to permit students to inspect and review conﬁdential letters andThe Educational Program https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/77
23 of 52 7/25/23, 12:56 PM
recommendations placed in their ﬁles prior to January 1, 1975, provided those letters were
collected under established policies of conﬁdentiality and were used only for the purposes
for which they were collected.
Students who believe that their education records contain information that is inaccurate or
misleading, or is otherwise in violation of their privacy or other rights, may discuss their
problems informally with the Registrar. If the decisions of the Registrar are in agreement
with the students’ requests, the appropriate records will be amended. If not, the students
will be notiﬁed within a reasonable period of time that the records will not be amended;
and they will be informed of their right to a formal hearing. Student requests for formal
hearings must be made in writing to the Dean of the Faculty who, within a reasonable
period of time after receiving such requests, will inform students of the date, place, and
the time of the hearings. Students may present evidence relevant to the issues raised and
may be assisted or represented at the hearings by one or more persons of their choice,
including attorneys, at the students’ expense. The hearing panels which will adjudicate
such challenges will be the Faculty Standards and Standing Committee.
Decisions of the hearing panel will be ﬁnal, will be based solely on the evidence presented
at the hearing, and will consist of written statements summarizing the evidence and stating
the reasons for the decisions, and will be delivered to all parties concerned. The education
records will be corrected or amended in accordance with the decisions of the hearing
panels, if the decisions are in favor of the students. If the decisions are unsatisfactory to
the students, the students may place with the education records statements commenting
on the information in the records, or statements setting forth any reasons for disagreeing
with the decisions of the hearing panels. The statements will be placed in the education
records, maintained as part of the students’ records, and released whenever the records
in question are disclosed.
Students who believe that the adjudications of their challenges were unfair or not in
keeping with the provisions of the Act may request, in writing, assistance from the
President of the College to aid them in ﬁling complaints with The Family Educational
Rights and Privacy Act Ofﬁce (FERPA), Department of Education, Washington, D.C.
20201
Revisions and clariﬁcations of this policy will be published as experience with the law and
the institutional policy warrants. Annual notice of compliance with the Act is published in
the Rhodes College Catalog.
Printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/educational-program/academic-regulations
Foundations Curriculum
The Foundations CurriculumThe Educational Program https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/77
24 of 52 7/25/23, 12:56 PM
In the Fall of 2007, the Foundations Curriculum, an academic curriculum that establishes
a new approach to the study of the liberal arts and sciences at the College, was fully
implemented. The Foundations Curriculum was adopted by the Faculty in order to achieve
several goals:
1. To assist students to understand the goals of a liberal arts education and to take
greater responsibility for their education. The curriculum gives students greater
freedom to follow their academic interests and aspirations within a framework of
Foundation requirements that are fundamental to the study of the liberal arts;
2. To provide a more transparent and streamlined curriculum by framing the degree
requirements in terms of skills and content areas;
3. To bring greater focus to the courses students take and to recognize that their
activities inside and outside the classroom should be mutually informative and
energizing;
4. To create the opportunity to offer more courses reﬂective of the scholarly interests of
the faculty and to develop innovative courses that respond to the developing currents
in contemporary thought; and,
5. To establish four courses as the standard load per semester in order to allow for a
more focused educational experience for all of our students. The Foundations
curriculum enhances the way in which the four components of the Rhodes education
work together: the Foundation requirements (commonly referred to as “F1”, “F2”,
etc.), the concentration in a Major, the choice of elective courses, and participation in
co-curricular activities.
The Foundation of the Liberal Arts Requirements
The Foundation requirements establish a framework for liberal education and life-long
learning. Unless mentioned otherwise in the description, Foundation requirements will be
met by taking one course speciﬁed as meeting that requirement, and most requirements
will have courses in several different departments that do so.  
Upon completion of the requirements and the attainment of a Bachelor’s degree from
Rhodes, each graduate of the College should be able to:
1. Critically examine personal, social, and cultural values.  An education in the
liberal arts must engage students in critical examination of the relationship between
the values they hold as individuals and their social and historical location. The
cultural context of a liberal arts institution in the United States is itself marked by
values, a moral orientation, and operative assumptions that are in need of
exploration and open to critical reﬂections. Thoughtful engagement with the complex
legacies of texts and traditions that have been formative of this culture is anThe Educational Program https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/77
25 of 52 7/25/23, 12:56 PM
especially effective way to gain skills for critical thinking, self-awareness, and
communication across differences of value. Courses that fulﬁll the F1 must satisfy the
requirement of the Bellingrath Trust to offer academically 'sound and comprehensive'
exploration of biblical texts and traditions. Courses that fulﬁll this requirement will
engage students in a critical examination of personal, social, and cultural values
through the academic study of biblical literature and of traditions that are productively
compared with it. This requirement is satisﬁed by completing a set of two coordinated
courses at the 100-level (e.g., 101, 102) and one course at the 200-level or higher.
The ﬁrst two courses must be completed during the ﬁrst year and the second course
must also fulﬁl the F2i. The third course at the 200-level or higher must be completed
after the ﬁrst year.
2. Develop excellence in written communication.  The ability to express concise and
methodical arguments in clear and precise prose is essential to success in most
courses at Rhodes and in most of the vocations Rhodes graduates pursue. Students
will receive signiﬁcant training in writing during the ﬁrst two years through one (1)
course (F2s) focused on learning to write, including such skills as critical analysis,
clear expression, and effective argumentation, and two (2) writing intensive courses
(F2i) focused on using writing to learn discipline-speciﬁc content. These three
required courses will provide the initial steps in the student's deliberate development
as a writer. Given the developmental nature of this foundation requirement series,
students are encouraged to take F2s prior to or concurrent with but not after F2i;
writing in discipline-speciﬁc F2i courses relies on the skills learned in F2s.
This requirement will be satisﬁed by one writing seminar (taken in the ﬁrst year) and
two writing intensive courses, one of which will be in the 2nd semester of the ﬁrst
year F1 sequence. Normally, all three courses are to be completed by the end of the
second year. Writing intensive courses and writing seminars may explore material in
any discipline or may be interdisciplinary. However, the writing seminars will have as
their central focus writing skills.
3. Engage in historical thinking about the human past.  Historical thinking requires a
deliberative stance towards the human past as it is constructed and interpreted with
primary sources, such as human artifacts, written evidence, oral traditions, and
artistic expressions. It requires understanding of historical forces and actors and
engagement with interpretive debate, through the skillful use of an evolving set of
methodological practices and tools.  
4. Read and interpret literary texts.  Literary texts provide challenging and inﬂuential
representations of human experience in its individual, social, and cultural
dimensions. Critical and sensitive reading of signiﬁcant works reﬁnes analytical skills
and develops an awareness of the power of language.
5. Create art and analyze artistic expression.  Humans express themselves creativelyThe Educational Program https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/77
26 of 52 7/25/23, 12:56 PM
through art forms that are aural, visual, and performed.  Creating and studying art are
particularly effective ways of understanding art. This requirement may be satisﬁed
with a designated course in which the primary and sustained focus is artistic
creativity.
6. Gain facility with mathematical reasoning and expression.  Some human
experiences are most effectively expressed in mathematical language, and important
areas of intellectual inquiry rely on mathematics as a tool of analysis and as a means
of conveying information.
7. Explore and understand scientiﬁc approaches to the natural world.  Our
experience of the world is profoundly inﬂuenced by a scientiﬁc understanding of the
physical realm of our existence.   To make informed decisions about the production
and application of scientiﬁc knowledge, students need to understand the way science
examines the natural world.   Students acquire such knowledge by learning scientiﬁc
facts and by understanding and engaging through laboratory work the powerful
methods by which scientiﬁc information is obtained.
8. Use theory and empirical research to explore aspects  of human experience and
interaction and apply these to contemporary issues.  Responsible citizenship
entails critical evaluation and interpretation of theoretical and empirical approaches
to understanding contemporary conditions that inﬂuence the well-being of individuals
and their communities. A sound understanding of the institutions and practices that
shape and are shaped by human behavior will allow students to become more
informed participants in critical conversations that transform our world.
9. View the world from more than one cultural perspective.  The individual of today's
world must be able to understand issues and events through multiple cultural
perspectives by developing abilities that facilitate intelligent and respectful interaction
in various cultural contexts.  These abilities include recognizing, understanding and
articulating the similarities and differences of cultural perspectives, including one's
own.
10. Demonstrate intermediate second-language proﬁciency.  Proﬁciency in a second
language allows a level of access to a culture that is not achievable through sources
in translation. Intermediate proﬁciency includes the ability to understand and
communicate with members of the target culture, negotiate differences between the
second language and the ﬁrst, and use the second language as a tool for human
communication.
11. Participate in activities that broaden connections between the classroom and
the world.  Rhodes students are asked to become engaged citizens, participating in
the local community - its politics, its culture, its problems, its aspirations – and in theThe Educational Program https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/77
27 of 52 7/25/23, 12:56 PM
world community. Students gain skill in connecting knowledge to its uses through
educational experience that takes them off campus.
12. Develop skills to become an informed, active and engaged student-citizen.  The
F12 provides opportunities to explore core aspects of one’s community and one’s
self.  Students will learn how to thrive within a learning environment, and how to
develop the skills and discover resources necessary to ﬂourish as an individual, as a
scholar, and as an active citizen of the interconnected communities of Rhodes
College, Memphis, and the wider world. This requirement is fulﬁlled through the
successful completion of a ﬁrst year seminar at Rhodes as approved by the
Foundations Curriculum Committee.
Printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/educational-program/foundations-curriculum
Foundations Programs in the Humanities
Questions about the meaning and purpose of life are central to human existence. Every
area of the Rhodes curriculum touches in some way upon such questions, whether
directly as in moral philosophy, epic poetry, and political thought, or indirectly as in studies
of the history of medieval Europe, economic theory, and the physical structure of the
universe. The programs Life: Then and Now (“Life”) and The Search for Values in the Light
of Western Religion and History (“Search”) help students think about these issues and so
provide the foundation for the entire curriculum.
Life and Search students meet in small groups led by faculty members to analyze
challenging and controversial texts that have shaped and reshaped thought, particularly in
Western societies. Because of its prominence in world history, these courses pay special
attention to the Bible and the traditions that have emerged in relationship to it. Life and
Search courses endeavor to make the familiar unfamiliar by examining critically the logical
and historical foundations of received opinion and texts. They also make the unfamiliar
familiar by studying traditions, artifacts, and issues that most students have not yet
encountered. Through both programs, students learn to appreciate the role of historical
context in shaping values, beliefs, and practices and to reﬂect critically on their own
values, beliefs, and practices. Life and Search stress skills that are central to the whole
curriculum: careful reading, analytical writing, critical thinking, and discussion.
At the start of their ﬁrst year in the College, most students choose to pursue Life or Search
(or other coordinated courses outside Life or Search that fulﬁll the F1 Humanities
requirement),  and generally remain in their chosen program until they have completed it.
Search and Life share many features but also are distinctive. The following descriptions
clarify the differences.The Educational Program https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/77
28 of 52 7/25/23, 12:56 PM
Life: Then and Now
The student who chooses the Life: Then and Now program completes a three semester
sequence of courses. The ﬁrst courses are taken in the fall and spring semesters of the
ﬁrst year. The third course may be taken at any time in the remaining three years of the
student’s college career.
The ﬁrst two courses in the Life sequence are Religious Studies 101-102, The Bible: Texts
and Contexts. These courses introduce students to the academic study of the Bible and
the traditions of interpretation and reﬂection based upon it. This two semester sequence
follows a basic chronological development, from the earliest biblical sources to modern
interpretations. The ﬁrst semester of the course is taught by members of the Department
of Religious Studies with primary competence in the study of the Bible and the second
semester by members with expertise in theological reﬂection and the disciplines of the
history of religion. Both courses emphasize careful textual analysis, clear and effective
writing, and active discussion with peers. Complete descriptions of these courses may be
found in the Religious Studies section of the catalogue.
The third Life course is chosen from a variety of offerings in Religious Studies, Philosophy,
and Greek and Roman Studies. These courses build on the skills and base of knowledge
developed in ﬁrst year Life and further reﬁne and augment them. The third Life course is
selected from an array that includes advanced study of the Bible, theology and ethics,
philosophy, and the history of religions. The spectrum of upper-level Life courses will
change periodically to reﬂect student and faculty interests but includes staples such as
“Archaeology and the Bible,” “King David,” “Sex and Gender in the New Testament,”
“Paul,” “Contemporary Theology,” “Holocaust,” “Islam,” and “Religious Traditions of Asia,”
“Religion in America,” “Medieval Philosophy,” and “Ethics.” With a wide variety of choices,
students may select a third Life course that suits their interests and best complements
their overall academic plan.
The Search for Values in the Light of Western History and Religion
The “Search” curriculum is a three-semester sequence of Humanities courses that
focuses on major works that have formed the western tradition. In a small, seminar
setting, Search students and faculty engage in sustained examination of vital questions
arising from an individual’s relationships to the natural world, human society, and the
products of human culture.  We approach these questions by interrogating central texts
within, and written in contestation of, western intellectual traditions, including Christianity,
Judaism, and Islam. Students read the Hebrew Bible, the New Testament, and the Qur’an
in conjunction with other selected works from the ancient and medieval worlds. The texts
we study over the course of our three semesters speak directly to each other, often
radically critiquing the traditions out of which they emerge.   In Search, we critically
examine the assumptions that emerge from these disputed traditions, assumptions thatThe Educational Program https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/77
29 of 52 7/25/23, 12:56 PM
underlie cultures and institutions in the modern world.   Throughout, we stress the skills
that are central to the whole curriculum (careful reading, analytical writing, critical thinking
and discussion), and we equip students to enter into a lively and lifelong conversation of
ideas. 
Humanities 101 and 102
The ﬁrst semester of Search focuses on the ancient world and follows the history and
literature of the Israelites and the Greeks.   Texts include the ancient Sumerian Epic of
Gilgamesh, the Hebrew Bible, and the selected works of Homer, Thucydides, Plato, and
Aristotle.  The second semester of Search covers literature from the Hellenistic period to
the Middle Ages.   Texts include Virgil’s Aeneid, the New Testament, the Qur’an, and
Dante’s Divine Comedy. During the ﬁrst year of the course, all Search colloquia follow a
common syllabus; every 2-3 weeks, all Search students meet for a plenary lecture
delivered by one of the Search faculty.
Humanities 201
The third semester of Search pursues the questions raised in the ﬁrst year as they play
out in the modern world. Students trace the roles of biblical and classical heritages in the
shaping of the values, character, and institutions of Western culture and its understanding
of self and world.  Different sections follow different themes and disciplinary focuses
determined by the instructor.
Printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/educational-program/foundations-programs-
humanities
Meeman Center for Lifelong Learning
Lori Garner , Director.
Shantih Smythe . Director of College Events.
Christian Assandria, Administrative Assistant II, Ofﬁce of Development.
Meeman Center for Lifelong Learning is Rhodes’ commitment to learning as a lifelong
process. Since its inception in 1944, the Center has been an integral part of the College,
successfully engaging adults of the Mid-South in the liberal arts and sciences. Meeman
Center promotes personal and professional development by extending Rhodes’ tradition
of excellence in liberal arts education to individuals and businesses. All programs,
courses, and trips offered by Meeman Center are described in detail in brochures
available on request from the Meeman Center ofﬁce or on the web.The Educational Program https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/77
30 of 52 7/25/23, 12:56 PM
Non-Credit Courses
Lifelong learning courses are offered in literature, art, languages, science, current events,
history, religion, philosophy, and other areas of interest. Courses vary in length and run in
the Fall (September through November) and Spring (January through May). The
instructors are Rhodes faculty and invited experts, including Rhodes alumni. Online
registration is available at meeman.rhodes.edu.
Institute on the Profession of Law
Meeman Center offers an annual ethics seminar for attorneys to earn dual Continuing
Legal Education (CLE) units. The seminar emphasizes national speakers, broad issues in
law, and enlightened discussion and reﬂection. Rhodes faculty are a vital part of the
Institute, both as planners and participants. The Institute is certiﬁed by the Tennessee,
Arkansas, and Mississippi Continuing Legal Education Commissions.
Continuing Education Units
Generally, Continuing Education Units (CEUs) are earned through any Meeman Center
non-credit course. Continuing Legal Education (CLE) hours are earned through the
Institute on the Profession of Law and certain other CLE Commission-certiﬁed continuing
education courses. Contact the Meeman Center ofﬁce for more information.
Printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/educational-program/meeman-center-lifelong-
learning
Opportunities for Individualized Study
The Fellowships Program
Rhodes recognizes that a liberal education extends beyond the classroom and
encourages our students to take part in outside study, research, creative activity,
internships, and community service—locally, nationally, and internationally. A Fellowship is
deﬁned as  an activity outside the conventional classroom that complements and broadens
the student's program of liberal arts education . Fellowships support co-curricular
experiences in which students take intellectual ownership in a faculty- or staff- mentored
project or experience.  
At its best, experiential learning allows a student to practice skills and explore more deeply
principles acquired through coursework. Most often the opportunity to discover and create
on one’s own builds conﬁdence and passion. Students return to the classroom with
renewed interest and focus.The Educational Program https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/77
31 of 52 7/25/23, 12:56 PM
Rhodes has pioneered several programs such as Self-designed Student Fellowships,
Rhodes St. Jude Summer Plus, the Rhodes Institute for Regional Studies, the Mike Curb
Institute for Music, Urban Education Summer Institute,  and the Rhodes Summer Service
Fellowship Program that provide diverse opportunities for student engagement beyond the
classroom. These programs have been so popular and transformative that the college is
now engaged in an effort to offer even more opportunities for students to pursue their own
personal interests, particularly through projects that involve sustained mentorship and a
commitment to the three student learning outcomes associated with experiential
education:
• Participate in an experience that complements and broadens the student's program
of liberal arts education
• Develop critical reﬂection skills
• Create a ﬁnal product related to the fellowship activity
The Fellowships Program can also provide funding for those projects that require it, with
the regular application deadline occurring in February.
For more information, contact the Director of Fellowships and Undergraduate Research
(fellowships@rhodes.edu ).
The Honors Program
The Honors program is a culminating experience in the major ﬁeld, for seniors only. It is
the principal means whereby a student may do more independent, intensive, and
individual work than can be done in the regular degree programs. The Honors work offers
an excellent introduction to graduate study as it employs the full resources of library and
laboratory and encourages independent research and study.
All Honors programs include a project of a scholarly and creative nature. This project can
be research culminating in a written report or thesis, or it can be a creative project as
represented by an original production. An oral presentation of the ﬁnal project is also
expected. A copy of the ﬁnal report or production is placed in a permanent ﬁle or on
display in the library.
Students considering Honors normally take a one-credit tutorial in the second semester of
the junior year. Emphasis in the tutorial will be selection of a topic, preliminary research
and deﬁnition of the project, and preparation of the Honors application.
Although each department and program sets its own departmental and program
requirements for Honors, there are general College requirements for the Honors program.
To be eligible for the Honors program a student must have a minimum cumulative grade
point average and a major grade point average of 3.50  at the time of application for
honors. The student must graduate with a cumulative grade point average and a majorThe Educational Program https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/77
32 of 52 7/25/23, 12:56 PM
grade point average of 3.50  in order to receive the honors designation at commencement.
At least four credits per semester in the senior year must be earned in Honors Tutorial
courses. Up to eight additional credits of tutorial or related course work may be counted,
resulting in a maximum of sixteen credits of Honors in the senior year.
Special attention is necessary to ensure the completion of the Honors project in time for it
to be evaluated and approved. For this reason, a special timetable for submission,
reviews, and approvals of Honors projects is set by each department and program. Failure
to meet announced deadlines may result in the failure to gain Honors recognition.
Descriptions of the requirements for Honors are listed in each departmental and program
section of this catalogue. The Honors Registration form is available as a downloadable
form on the Rhodes Express website.
Directed Inquiry
The term directed inquiry indicates a type of independent study designed to give more
individuality than is provided by regular coursework. A directed inquiry is a project agreed
upon by a student and professor; it may be a laboratory experiment, special readings on a
given topic, some type of art work, a group of essays, etc. The details of the project are
agreed upon by the student and the professor. Directed inquiries may not be used to
satisfy general degree requirements.
Credits for a directed inquiry range from one to four. Forty-six hours of work, including
outside reading, experiments and conferences, are required for one credit. No more than
twelve credits may be earned in any one department. The maximum number of credits for
all directed inquiries allowed is twenty-four. Normally a ﬁrst-year student may not
undertake a directed inquiry until after the completion of one semester of regular studies.
Special students are generally not eligible for directed inquiries.
Proposals for directed inquiries must be submitted for approval to the chair of the
department. Appropriate forms are available online. These forms call for details such as
the beginning and ending dates of the project and set forth speciﬁc rules governing such
things as extensions or other possible considerations. The student should become familiar
with this form well in advance of the date intended to submit a proposal so that everything
will be in order and approved by the department when submitted. Applications for directed
inquiries are to be submitted in time for the department to act and submitted to the
Registrar before the date set for the project to begin. Normally a student will not be
permitted to take more than one directed inquiry at a time.
In the event that more than two students are interested in a directed inquiry on the same
topic, a special topics course may be taught. Such courses must conform to the standard
forty-six hours of study per credit.The Educational Program https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/77
33 of 52 7/25/23, 12:56 PM
The Tutorial Plan
The tutorial plan of instruction, like the Honors Program and the Directed Inquiry, has as
its chief purposes the individualizing of instruction and the provision of a means whereby
students may go beyond the scope of a class course, both in the amount of work done
and the kinds of interests pursued. The method is often that of extensive reading under
guidance, and conferences with the tutor on the material read, either individually or in a
small group.
The content of a tutorial is usually that of a regular catalogue course that is not scheduled
to be taught during a particular term. A student may request that the course be taught in
the tutorial fashion if a member of the faculty is available and agrees to direct the course.
Approval by the faculty member, the chairperson of the department involved, and the
Registrar is necessary for the tutorial to be scheduled. At a minimum, forty-six hours of
study are required for each credit or a total of 184 hours of study for a four credit course.
Interdisciplinary Programs
Interdisciplinary programs exist to provide an appropriate structure within which to offer
study opportunities that do not ﬁt within the bounds of existing departments, to bring
together faculty and students from several disciplines to study areas of interest that cross
traditional departmental lines and require an interdisciplinary approach, and to inform the
campus community at large of the nature and importance of these areas.
Descriptions of Interdisciplinary Programs in the Courses of Instruction section of this
catalogue.
Internships
Rhodes recognizes the need and the value of integrating traditional academic work and
practical application. Internships are important ways in which students may have this
experience. Internship credit is given for involvement in off-campus work related to a
student’s academic work and supervised by a faculty member of the corresponding
department. Internships are deﬁned within the course structures of several academic
departments. Requirements for acceptance as an intern are set by each department.
Typically, only junior and senior students are eligible to earn credit for an internship.
Internship experiences earning 3 (three) or more credits will satisfy the F11 requirement,
require at least 10 hours of work per week, and the student is expected to integrate
academic work with on-the-job activities. Internship experiences earning 1 (one) or 2 (two)
credits normally require at least 6 hours of work per week,  will include a reﬂective
component such as a journal or ﬁnal paper, and the student will meet with the faculty
supervisor at least twice to discuss the internship and reﬂective component. Special
internship opportunities can be proposed subject to approval by the departmentThe Educational Program https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/77
34 of 52 7/25/23, 12:56 PM
concerned. Interested students should contact the chairperson of the department and the
Career Services Ofﬁce.
Students pursuing an internship experience arranged through a department and/or the
Career Services Ofﬁce must register for the appropriate course in order to earn academic
credit. This credit is considered part of the course load during a regular semester and
during summer session. Forty-six hours of work, including on-site work as an intern,
outside reading, and conferences, are required for one credit. Students with summer
internships must register for the credit and pay the summer session tuition in order to
receive the credit. Not all internships are paid, but those that are paid must meet the
above requirements to qualify for academic credit.
No more than eight (8) credits in internships may be earned in one department per
semester. A student may apply toward a degree a maximum of eight (8) credits of
internship.
The Nancy Hughes Morgan Program in Hospital Chaplaincy
This program is designed for pre-medical students and persons going into other health-
care related disciplines, the ministry, and counseling ﬁelds. It offers a carefully supervised
internship in local hospitals where students serve as chaplains’ assistants, develop
counseling skills, and sharpen their abilities to listen and respond to patient needs.
The Memphis Consortium of Colleges
Through  arrangements between Rhodes and  Christian Brothers University, or Rhodes and
The University of Memphis,  Rhodes students may take courses at those institutions during
the fall and spring semesters. Only a certain set of courses is available at Christian
Brothers and The University of Memphis; a student should contact the Registrar for further
information.   To participate, the student must  register for the desired class at either college
and include  the class on the semester’s course schedule at Rhodes.   This registration
process is completed using the Crosstown Registration form available on the Documents
and Forms Page of the Express website.  
To be eligible to participate in the Consortium, students must enroll in at least twelve (12)
hours per semester at Rhodes to be considered full time.  The course credit counts toward
the semester’s credits at Rhodes; and as long as the consortium course does not result in
a course overload for the semester, there is no additional tuition charge. The ﬁnal grade
for the course is computed in the student’s grade point average as if it were a Rhodes
grade. Normally, only one course may be taken per semester through the Consortium
arrangement.
Printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/educational-program/opportunities-individualized-
studyThe Educational Program https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/77
35 of 52 7/25/23, 12:56 PM
Opportunities for Study Abroad and Domestic Off-
Campus Study
Rhodes encourages its students to study off-campus through the programs it administers
or through programs administered through other institutions. Off-campus study, whether
domestic or international in scope, requires substantial prior planning. Students interested
in pursuing such a course of study should formulate and clarify their plans well in advance.
Off-campus study opportunities are coordinated by the Buckman Center for International
Education. The staff in the Buckman Center can assist students in researching off-campus
study programs and can facilitate completion of the program’s application process.
Students are responsible for meeting with their academic advisors to discuss program
choices and for course selections. Students applying to study off-campus must have a
minimum grade point average of 2.5, unless speciﬁed higher by the program, and must be
in good social and academic standing.
Students may study off-campus on a one-semester or year-long Rhodes Program,
Exchange Program, or Afﬁliated Program. In general, students pay tuition, room, and
board to Rhodes and receive tuition, room and board on the program (there are some
differences, depending on the type of program; these are speciﬁcally noted in the sections
below). Rhodes institutional aid and federal/state aid are portable for these programs. In
any given year, Rhodes offers over 350 such options for off-campus study.
Off-Campus Study Application Process
Each student who intends to pursue off-campus study must complete the Off-Campus
Study Application available on the Buckman Center website. This Application, after being
changed from “pending” to “accepted”, grants approval for the program of study and,
subject to general college policies regarding transfer credit, assigns appropriate credit for
the academic work successfully completed. Normally a student cannot earn more credit
while on a semester study abroad program than could have been earned in a regular
semester at Rhodes. The Buckman Center website contains instructions, checklists,
deadlines, application materials, and policies.
Types of Off-Campus Study Available
Brieﬂy, there are three broad categories for off-campus study, listed below. For more
detailed information on each of these, please click the links to be taken to their page in the
Catalogue.
• Rhodes Programs
◦ Summer Programs ("Maymesters")The Educational Program https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/77
36 of 52 7/25/23, 12:56 PM
◦ Semester Programs ( NYC Internship Program  and Global Ghana: History and
the Diaspora )
• ISEP and Bilateral Semester Exchanges
• Afﬁliated Summer and Semester Programs
Petitioning to Study Abroad with Non-Afﬁliated Programs
A student may petition for variance from the policy regarding Afﬁliated Programs via a
Buckman Center application reviewed by the Director of the Buckman Center for
International Education. Petitioners may request approval to participate for a semester
abroad with non-Afﬁliated Programs from a discrete list of exceptional programs
maintained by the Buckman Center. Petitions may be granted or denied based on a
number of factors, including but not limited to: the quality of the petition, the rationale on
the inadequacy of an Afﬁliated Program for the student's academic purpose, and the
number of petitions already granted for that term, among others.
If the petition is granted, the student will be able to participate on the program by paying
tuition, room, and board (in some cases, partial or no board) to Rhodes and receive
tuition, room and board (or partial or no board) on the program abroad, using portable
institutional and federal/state aid on the petitioned program. Credit earned on these
programs is treated as transfer credit. Petitioners are encouraged to secure placement on
an Afﬁliated Program in the event their petition is denied.
Exceptional Programs List
The Buckman Center maintains a list of exceptional programs for students to review in the
event the Afﬁliated Programs do not seem sufﬁcient for the student's academic needs.
Rhodes community members may request a program be considered for inclusion on this
list by communicating with the Director of the Buckman Center for International Education.
Off-Campus Study Program Transfer Credit Policies
1. For all transfer credit, it is the student’s responsibility to do the following:
1. Verify that the program of study is a Rhodes, Exchange, or Afﬁliated Program,
or has been successfully petitioned. 
2. Verify that courses intended to be taken in the major or minor area of study
have been approved by the appropriate department or program chair in
consultation with the faculty adviser. Such approval is granted only through the
signature of the department or program chair on the student’s Off-Campus
Study Application.
3. Request an ofﬁcial transcript with ﬁnal grades from the program attended beThe Educational Program https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/77
37 of 52 7/25/23, 12:56 PM
sent to:  
Ofﬁce of the Registrar
Rhodes College
2000 N. Parkway
Memphis, TN 38112
2. At the relevant academic department’s discretion, transfer courses taken abroad can
be used to satisfy major and minor requirements. Courses for transfer credit must be
passed with a minimum of “C-” to be eligible for transfer credit.
3. Credit should be approved prior to enrollment in courses. However, in some cases it
may be necessary to postpone approval until course descriptions, syllabi, papers,
and tests are examined.
4. Should a student’s course selection change for any reason after submission of the
application, substituted courses are not transferrable unless approved by an
appropriate department or program chair. Such approval must be sought immediately
(i.e., email); copies of any such correspondence should also be directed to the
Director of the Buckman Center for International Education and to the Registrar.
5. Students are strongly encouraged to contact the Director of the Buckman Center for
International Education prior to ﬁnal course registration at the host institution in order
to conﬁrm course credit approvals. Retroactive approval may be sought but is not
guaranteed and must be obtained before the conclusion of the ﬁrst semester of the
student’s return to Rhodes.
6. To be accepted for credit, each course, whether for major/minor credit or elective
credit, must be judged comparable in terms of content and quality to a course in the
curriculum at Rhodes or it must be judged to be consistent with the liberal arts and
sciences curriculum and of a quality comparable to that expected of courses at
Rhodes. Courses intended to be taken for major or minor credit must be approved by
the appropriate department or program chair in consultation with the faculty adviser.
Such approval is granted only through the signature of the department or program
chair on the student’s Off Campus Study Application. Elective credit will be reviewed
by the appropriate academic ofﬁcer acting on behalf of the Foundations Curriculum
Committee.
7. Students who study abroad on an Afﬁliated Program will normally satisfy the F11
requirement. In addition, students may, through appropriate course work, satisfy up
to two additional Foundation requirements while abroad on a semester-long program
or up to three additional Foundation requirements for a year-long program. The
Director of the Buckman Center for International Education will recommend to theThe Educational Program https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/77
38 of 52 7/25/23, 12:56 PM
Foundations Curriculum Committee, in consultation with the Registrar and other
relevant faculty members as necessary, the appropriateness of the course(s) taken
abroad for Foundational credit.
8. Programs vary greatly in their academic structure. At some universities abroad, three
courses is considered a full load, while at others a full load may be as many as 8-9
courses. Rhodes College students must maintain what is considered a full-time
course load by both Rhodes College and the institution abroad. Normally, a student
cannot earn more credit while on a semester study program than could have been
earned in a regular semester at Rhodes. Failure to satisfactorily complete
coursework needed to maintain satisfactory academic progress for ﬁnancial aid
purposes may result in the loss of ﬁnancial aid renewal eligibility.
9. No strict correlation exists between contact hours in courses taken off-campus and
credits awarded by Rhodes. Many European institutions utilize the ECTS crediting
system in which one ECTS credit is comparable to one-half credit at Rhodes. For
example, a course worth 8 ECTS credits will normally transfer to Rhodes as 4
credits. If the host program’s transcript does not translate easily to “American” credit
(e.g., credits, quarter hours, semester hours, units) or does not provide a conversion
scale, or if the host institution’s academic calendar differs signiﬁcantly from the
Rhodes semester calendar, the following statement can act as general principle:
A student pursuing a fully approved, full-time program of coursework on study abroad
for a period roughly equivalent to Rhodes’ fall or spring semester will usually receive
16 transfer credits from Rhodes upon the successful completion of all coursework.
Successful completion is deﬁned as earning a grade equivalent to “C-” or better in
each course.
10. All courses should be taken for graded credit.
Printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/educational-program/opportunities-study-abroad-
and-domestic-campus-study
Requirements for a Degree
Rhodes College offers a four-year program of study in the liberal arts and sciences leading
to the Bachelor of Arts or the Bachelor of Science degree. Candidates for either degree
must complete the Foundation Requirements. Students majoring in a science may earn
the Bachelor of Science degree. Rhodes also offers a Master of Science degree in
Accounting and a Master of Arts degree in Urban Education.
The Bachelor’s DegreeThe Educational Program https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/77
39 of 52 7/25/23, 12:56 PM
The Bachelor’s degree is granted to students who have completed the required 128
credits and the appropriate degree requirements. The degree requirements under the
Foundations Curriculum include at least thirteen courses (52 credits) and as many as
sixteen courses (64 credits) as described below. Although 52 total credits are required,
several of these credits will be satisﬁed by courses taken in a particular major. Moreover,
the total number of credits required to satisfy the writing and language requirements may
vary because the foreign language requirement may be satisﬁed by successful completion
of a proﬁciency exam. In addition, some courses satisfy more than one foundation
requirement, effectively decreasing the number of required courses. Thus, the number of
credits available for electives is dependent upon several factors: the major, whether the
degree is the Bachelor of Arts or the Bachelor of Science, how many courses a student
must take to satisfy the writing and language requirements, and how many courses
outside the major a student must take to satisfy the foundation requirements.
Once the degree is conferred, no additional course work may be taken and applied to that
degree. Additional course work may be applied toward a second degree or taken in a non-
degree seeking status, however.
Bachelor of Arts. The Bachelor of Arts degree is awarded to those students who complete
the degree requirements as stated above and more fully described below, including the
completion of the requirements for a major as outlined in the appropriate section of this
catalog.
Bachelor of Science. The Bachelor of Science degree may be earned by students who
complete the appropriate requirements for a degree with a major in Biology, Biochemistry
and Molecular Biology, Biomathematics, Chemistry, Computer Science, Environmental
Science, Mathematics, Neuroscience, or Physics. Self-designed interdisciplinary majors
may earn a Bachelor of Science degree if all of the departments involved offer a BS
degree or if at least one of the departments involved offers a BS degree, the major
requires at least 28 credits of natural sciences and math, and the student completes a
total of at least 36 credits of the natural sciences and math. Please see the
Interdisciplinary Studies section of the catalogue for a fuller description of self-designed
interdisciplinary majors.
Although the College, through various advising methods, assists a student in planning and
following a program of study which will lead to a degree, the student is ultimately
responsible for keeping track of progress toward a degree, for knowing and fulﬁlling all
degree and major requirements, and for arranging a course of study accordingly.
Total Credits for the Degree
A total of 128 credits are required for the Bachelor’s degree. A student must earn at least
50 percent of these credits at Rhodes. The senior year, deﬁned as 32 credits or the last 25The Educational Program https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/77
40 of 52 7/25/23, 12:56 PM
percent of the total credits required, must be spent in residence. No more than eight (8) of
these credits may be transfer credits.
A student must earn a cumulative grade point average of no less than 2.00  (C) to qualify
for the degree. A student may apply toward a degree a maximum of eight (8) credits in
internships.
A maximum combined total of credits equaling 25 percent of the degree requirement may
be earned through Advanced Placement, Cambridge Pre-U, International Baccalaureate,
and Option International Baccalaureate examinations. A student earning both transfer
credits and Advanced Placement, Cambridge Pre-U, International Baccalaureate and/or
Option International Baccalaureate credits may apply those credits to a Rhodes degree up
to a maximum combined total of ﬁfty percent of the total credits required for a degree.
Concentration of Study in a Major Discipline
Students’ majors may be directly related to an anticipated vocation, but that is not their
primary purpose in a liberal arts curriculum. The qualities of mind and abilities that will
serve students best in their careers are developed within the curriculum as a whole. The
major is a reﬁnement of intellectual discipline and a deepening of understanding of an
area of study. The academic enrichment gained through a major affords access to other
disciplines as well as an appreciation of the complexity of other ﬁelds of study. Students
should consider carefully how all of the courses they select can enrich and complement
work done in the major.
The Choice of Elective Courses
The Rhodes curriculum is designed speciﬁcally to offer students opportunities to combine
a carefully structured and intense study of at least one subject with the broad and diverse
understanding that is characteristic of an education in the liberal arts and sciences.
Although required to meet certain objectives, the Foundation courses may be selected
from a wide range of course offerings. These are only the beginning of a student’s
exploration of the ﬁelds of human knowledge and creativity. In selecting courses beyond
these requirements and outside the major discipline, students should consider the ways in
which their education can be broadened, complemented, and enriched.
Participation in Co-Curricular Activities
A comprehensive liberal arts education includes regular engagement with cultural
activities and diverse perspectives not only in the classroom, but also in the college
community and in communities beyond the college. Students become full participants in
the campus community as they join others in a variety of extra-curricular and co-curricular
activities. These include student government, music ensembles, athletics, campusThe Educational Program https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/77
41 of 52 7/25/23, 12:56 PM
publications, theatre productions, and many others. Service-learning opportunities,
international education opportunities, and undergraduate research provide students and
faculty with ways to integrate classroom and laboratory work with out-of-class
experiences, and a student’s experience in a course can be enriched in signiﬁcant ways
by the selection of complementary co-curricular activities.
The Major
A student must complete any one of the department-based majors, one of the
interdisciplinary majors listed elsewhere in this catalogue or an approved interdisciplinary
major formulated in consultation with faculty members.
Detailed descriptions of the department-based majors are given under the departmental
descriptions in the section entitled “Courses of Instruction.” The Interdisciplinary majors
are described in the section “Interdisciplinary Study,”
No major may require more than ﬁfty percent of the total credits required for the degree. At
least ﬁfty percent of the course requirements for a major or minor must be Rhodes credit.
All majors require a capstone experience that gives the students an opportunity to
demonstrate their progress towards the educational goals established for their majors.
This capstone experience usually includes demonstrations of proﬁciency in wiriting and
speaking and a familiarity with the foundations and contemporary concerns of the major
discipline.
A 2.00 (C) grade point average in the major is required for graduation. The major grade
point average is determined by computing the grade point average of all courses required
for the major as described in this catalog and any other courses taken in the declared
major. The computation of a major grade point average for an interdisciplinary major shall
include all courses described as required and as elective courses.
A student pursuing a double major or a second Bachelor’s degree may use no more than
four (4) of the same courses to satisfy requirements in both majors unless speciﬁed as
required by one or both of the majors.
In the case of changes in the requirement for a major, students may follow the
requirements stated in the catalogue that deﬁnes their general degree requirements or in
any later catalogue except in cases where changes in departmental course offerings
makes the original major requirements impossible to meet.
Declaration of a Major. Students must declare an intended major or majors no later than
mid-term of the spring semester of their sophomore year. Students in good standing will
be accepted as majors by any department they may choose but must ﬁrst discuss their
suitability for work in the department with the department’s chairperson. At the same time
the prospective major should make a tentative plan of course work to be completed in theThe Educational Program https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/77
42 of 52 7/25/23, 12:56 PM
student’s remaining semesters. A faculty advisor from the major department is assigned or
selected by each new major to aid in this planning. Forms for declaring a major are
available online here. Students declaring two majors will have an advisor in each major
department, but one advisor will be designated as the primary advisor. Students who are
delinquent in ﬁling a declaration of major will not be allowed to register for classes until the
appropriate form is received by the Registrar. While students may change majors,
changes made after the sophomore year may be difﬁcult to accommodate in the
remaining semesters.
Interdisciplinary Major. Some students prefer to study in an area that can best be covered
by combining the work in two or even three academic departments. Interdisciplinary
majors are important ways in which the faculty can meet the special academic needs of
these students.
The section listing titled “Interdisciplinary Study” summarizes existing interdisciplinary
major requirements for pre-approved curriculum structures. Students who wish to declare
any of the established interdisciplinary majors may do so by ﬁling the normal Declaration
of Major form with the Ofﬁce of the Registrar. Any deviation from the program of study
outlined in the description must be approved by the chairpersons of the departments
involved.
Students who wish to declare an interdisciplinary major that does not have a program of
study already deﬁned should follow the appropriate steps in order to secure the necessary
approvals within a reasonable time and to ensure an adequate review of the proposed
program of study. Those steps are detailed in the “Interdisciplinary Studies” section of this
catalogue. The proposed program of study must include speciﬁc provisions for a senior
seminar or integrating senior experience. The “Declaration of Interdisciplinary Major” form,
available online, is used to record the approvals and to advise the Registrar of the
College.
Intent to Graduate Form
All candidates for degrees must submit to the Registrar an “Intent to Graduate” form at
least two semesters prior to the intended date of graduation.
The College expects all students to conduct themselves as responsible citizens of our
academic community. Persistent or extreme departures from this standard may be
sufﬁcient cause for suspension or expulsion at any time prior to graduation. Students
under academic or disciplinary suspension are not permitted to graduate from Rhodes
until eligible for readmission. Students under academic or disciplinary expulsion are
permanently separated from the College and not permitted to graduate from Rhodes.
Expulsion may occur at any time before a diploma is awarded.  
If a student is the subject of a pending College investigation at the time of graduation, theThe Educational Program https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/77
43 of 52 7/25/23, 12:56 PM
student may not be eligible to graduate. Rhodes also reserves the right to exclude  from
graduation  persons who are the subject of an ongoing state or federal criminal process at
the time of graduation. In such cases, no refunds of tuition, fees, or room and board will be
made, and the College, its students, faculty, administrative judicial committees, and
ofﬁcers shall not be under any liability.  
Commencement
Rhodes requires attendance at the May commencement exercises by all candidates for a
degree including candidates whose work was completed in December and candidates
whose work will be completed in August. Students who complete degree work in
December are included in the graduating class in May of the next calendar year. Rhodes
will recognize students who complete degree work in August as members of the preceding
May’s graduating class. In order to participate in commencement exercises, August
candidates must be within near-expectation of completing the requirements for a degree
and have the approval of the Faculty Standards and Standings Committee or the Dean of
the Faculty, if the Standards and Standings Committee cannot be convened in a timely
manner. The College confers degrees (signiﬁed by the date of the degree of the diploma
and in ofﬁcial records) at the end of each regular semester (December and May) and in
August, but diplomas are awarded only at the May commencement.
Academic Minors
Academic minors are available to students who wish to supplement their major ﬁeld of
study with another academic area, giving both more depth and breadth to their course
work. In addition to departmental minors, interdisciplinary minors are available within the
established interdisciplinary programs in the curriculum.
Normally, a student is required to complete at least ﬁve speciﬁed courses to earn a minor.
At least four of the courses in the minor must be outside the requirements of the student's
major or majors and any other minors. Forms for declaring a minor are available online
and should be completed no later than the beginning of the fall semester of the senior
year.
A student must earn a grade point average of 2.00  in the courses required for an
academic minor in order for the minor to be posted to the ﬁnal academic record.
Undergraduate Certiﬁcates
Undergraduate certiﬁcate programs at Rhodes College provide additional, often
interdisciplinary undergraduate coursework beyond the major/minor. Each certiﬁcate
program offers a carefully designed sequence of courses focusing on an area
supplemental to the student's discipline, which may encompass multiple disciplines andThe Educational Program https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/77
44 of 52 7/25/23, 12:56 PM
help build knowledge and skills in a speciﬁc area. Certiﬁcates can enhance student
credentials and offer additional career opportunities.
An undergraduate certiﬁcate program offers a focused form of study. These programs are
appropriate for graduate study preparation or professional development. Certiﬁcate
offerings can respond with agility to the evolving needs of the professions, student
preferences, and funding opportunities.
Requirements for enrollment in an undergraduate certiﬁcate program:
1. Students must be currently enrolled Rhodes degree-seeking undergraduate
students.
2. Additional criteria for admission, such as GPA and prerequisite course work, may be
established within individual program guidelines.
Second Degree
A student may earn a second Bachelor’s degree upon earning at least 32 credits beyond
the total credits required for the ﬁrst degree and completion of all requirements for a
second major. A student may not earn two Bachelor of Arts degrees or two Bachelor of
Science degrees. A student planning to earn a second degree must declare that intention
no later than the beginning of the last semester of enrollment. All academic work for both
degrees is included in the cumulative grade point average of the double degree recipient.
A Rhodes graduate who wishes to return to the College to earn a second undergraduate
degree must earn an additional 32 credits beyond the number of hours earned for the ﬁrst
degree as well as complete the second major. For a returning student, a second
cumulative grade point average will be computed using only the additional hours earned
for the second degree.
Changes in Degree Requirements
A student may satisfy the requirements for a Rhodes degree as described in any
catalogue that has been in effect during the student’s enrollment. Students readmitted to
Rhodes may graduate under requirements in effect during the original period of enrollment
or by following a program incorporating features of the current catalog, including the
number of credits required for graduation, and the earlier degree requirements and
approved by the Standards and Standing Committee. Students may not declare a major if
it has been dropped from the College’s curriculum, even if the major was available at the
time of enrollment. In addition, degree and/or major requirements may have to be modiﬁed
in order to ﬁt current curricular offerings.
Academic AchievementThe Educational Program https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/77
45 of 52 7/25/23, 12:56 PM
The candidate for the degree who attains a cumulative grade point average of 3.95 in all
Rhodes work will be recommended for the degree summa cum laude.
The candidate for the degree who attains a cumulative grade point average of 3.85 in all
Rhodes work will be recommended for the degree magna cum laude.
The candidate for the degree who attains a cumulative grade point average of 3.50  in all
Rhodes work will be recommended for the degree cum laude.
The major with honors requires special independent study work in the major ﬁeld during
the senior year. The Honors Program is described under Opportunities for Individualized
Study. Rhodes does not rank its graduates.
Awarding of Posthumous Degrees
A posthumous degree may be awarded to a deceased undergraduate student who was
within 16 credits of the completion of the requirements for graduation or to a deceased
graduate student who was within 6 credits of the completion of the requirements for
graduation. The student must have been enrolled during the past two regular semesters.
The remaining credits would have completed all degree requirements, and the cumulative
and major GPA requirements must be met. The appropriate degree may be awarded
posthumously on the recommendation of the Dean of the Faculty with the approval of the
Faculty Standards and Standing Committee and the President. The student’s transcript
will show a notation that the degree was awarded posthumously.
Post-Baccalaureate Certiﬁcate
Post-baccalaureate certiﬁcate programs at Rhodes College provide additional,
undergraduate or graduate coursework beyond the baccalaureate degree and
major/minor. Each certiﬁcate program offers a carefully designed sequence of courses
focusing on an area supplemental to the student's discipline, which may encompass
multiple disciplines and help build knowledge and skills in a speciﬁc area.  
Unlike masters programs, post-baccalaureate certiﬁcates are not degree programs.
Certiﬁcate curriculum may be composed of undergraduate or graduate courses. Post-
baccalaureate certiﬁcates also differ from majors and minors in that they are undertaken
after the awarding of the baccalaureate degree. Moreover, certiﬁcate programs may
include a signiﬁcant experiential component directed toward professional development.
Certiﬁcate offerings can respond with agility to the evolving needs of the professors,
student preferences, and funding opportunities.
Requirements for Enrollment in a Post-Baccalaureate Certiﬁcate Program
• Student must have earned a baccalaureate degree from an accredited institution.The Educational Program https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/77
46 of 52 7/25/23, 12:56 PM
• Students applying for a Rhodes post-baccalaureate program must have a 2.5
minimum undergraduate GPA in order to be accepted. Additional criteria for
admission, such as a higher GPA, standardized test scores, and prerequisite
coursework may be established within individual program guidelines.  
• Undergraduate courses counting towards a baccalaureate degree cannot also be
used as coursework towards completing the post-baccalaureate certiﬁcate.
• To remain enrolled, students must maintain a 2.5 GPA in all coursework and be
satisfactorily attentive to their responsibilities in experiential components of the
program.
AP/Cambridge Pre-U/IB/OIB Credit Evaluation
A maximum of 32 credits may be earned through Advanced Placement, Cambridge Pre-U,
International Baccalaureate, and Option International Baccalaureate examinations. It is
the responsibility of the student to have ofﬁcial reports of examination scores in Advanced
Placement, Cambridge Pre-U, International Baccalaureate, and/or Option International
Baccalaureate sent to Rhodes College. Student copies of score reports are not acceptable
for formal evaluation. Receipt of ofﬁcial score reports and formal evaluation of
AP/Cambridge Pre-U/IB/OIB score reports must be completed within 10 weeks of the
beginning of a student’s ﬁrst semester of enrollment as a degree-seeking student at
Rhodes.
Transfer Students
Students who transfer to Rhodes have their previous college work evaluated for transfer
credit upon their acceptance for admission. Credit will be awarded following the guidelines
outlined below for the evaluation of academic work for transfer credit. Transfer students
are responsible for having ﬁnal copies of transcripts sent from each institution attended.
Ofﬁcial evaluation of transfer credit will not be completed until these ﬁnal transcripts have
been received in the Ofﬁce of the Registrar.
As degree candidates, transfer students must satisfy all of the degree requirements
outlined in this catalogue. Of the total credits required for a Rhodes degree, a minimum
ﬁfty percent must be earned at Rhodes and a maximum of ﬁfty percent may be accepted
as transfer and Advanced Placement credit.
Transfer credit for students who transfer to Rhodes will be evaluated following these
guidelines according to the Foundation requirements:
1. Courses presented with two or three semester hours or less than six quarter hours
will be given the appropriate and corresponding number of credits of transfer credit.
2. Credit from several courses may be combined to total four or more credits andThe Educational Program https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/77
47 of 52 7/25/23, 12:56 PM
therefore satisfy a foundation requirement.
3. A three-credit course may be used to satisfy a foundation requirement if the
corresponding course in the department meets that same requirement.
4. A three-credit course may be used to satisfy a major requirement if the
corresponding course in the department meets that same requirement unless
speciﬁcally disallowed by the department chair.
Transfer Credit
Credit from Other Institutions. Rhodes students may enroll in courses at other colleges
and universities and transfer credits to Rhodes. A student who desires to have academic
work transferred from another institution must have the work approved in advance by the
appropriate academic department chairperson at Rhodes and by the Registrar, acting on
behalf of the Education Program Committee. Courses not receiving prior approval may not
be accepted for transfer credit at the discretion of the department chair and the Registrar.
Students seeking concurrent enrollment at another institution during a regular semester
must have permission from the Standards and Standing Committee prior to registering at
the other institution. Concurrent enrollment credits are included in the computation of the
total credits permitted in one semester but are not included in the determination of full-time
status. Course credit earned at another institution during non-approved concurrent
enrollment may not be accepted for transfer credit.
It is the responsibility of the student to ensure that an ofﬁcial transcript from the other
institution is forwarded to the Registrar at Rhodes. Final evaluation of transfer work must
be completed within twelve (12) weeks of the completion of the course(s) in question. In
some departments, a proﬁciency examination must be passed in order for the transfer
credit to be accepted.
Transfer credit may not be used to satisfy a Foundation Requirement. Rhodes students
who study abroad in a long-term program that has been pre-approved through the
Buckman Center for International Education will normally satisfy the F11 requirement,
unless the program has been noted by the Center’s Director as particularly unsuitable for
this purpose.
In addition, students may, through appropriate course work, satisfy up to two additional
Foundation requirements while abroad (or up to three additional Foundation requirements
for a year-long-program). The Director of the Buckman Center will recommend to the
Foundations Curriculum Committee, in consultation with the Registrar, and other faculty
members as necessary, the appropriateness of the course(s) taken abroad for
Foundations credit. This recommendation will be done in accordance with guidelines as
provided by the Foundations Curriculum Committee.The Educational Program https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/77
48 of 52 7/25/23, 12:56 PM
Credit from Special Programs. Students wishing to participate in special programs at other
collegiate institutions are required to obtain permission and approval in advance from the
appropriate academic ofﬁcer acting on behalf of the Faculty Education Program
Committee. In most cases, this approval will come from the Director of the Buckman
Center, the Registrar, and the chair of the department at Rhodes in which the coursework
will be pursued. The Registrar, in consultation with department chairpersons and the Dean
of the Faculty, must approve all work at other institutions in advance of beginning the
work. In some cases it may be necessary to postpone approval until course syllabi,
papers, and tests are examined.
All credit earned on study abroad programs, exchange programs, and cooperative
programs such as Washington Semester is evaluated as transfer credit.
Transfer Credit Guidelines. The following guidelines are used in evaluating academic work
from other institutions for transfer credit:
• To be accepted for credit, each course must be judged comparable in terms of
content and quality to a course in the curriculum at Rhodes or it must be judged to be
consistent with the liberal arts and science curriculum and of a quality comparable to
that expected of courses at Rhodes. Departmental chairpersons make these
judgments; in many cases the Registrar of the College can act with the authority of
departmental chairpersons. In some departments, a proﬁciency examination must be
passed in order for the transfer credit to be accepted. The chairpersons and the
Registrar assign credit toward a degree in such a way as to match comparable work
at Rhodes.
• The course work must be taken on the campus of an accredited college or university
or while on a study abroad program approved through the Buckman Center for
International Education. Online courses, distance education courses, and dual credit
courses taught in a high school are not accepted for transfer credit.
• Transfer credit may not be used to satisfy a Foundation Requirement with the
following exception: Rhodes students who study abroad in a long-term program that
has been pre-approved through the Buckman Center for International Education will
normally satisfy the F11 requirement, unless the program has been noted by the
Center’s Director as particularly unsuitable for this purpose.
In addition, students may satisfy up to two additional Foundation requirements while
abroad (or up to three additional Foundation requirements for a year-long program).
The Director of the Buckman Center will recommend to the Foundations Curriculum
Committee, in consultation with the Registrar, and other faculty members as
necessary, the appropriateness of the course(s) taken abroad for Foundations credit.
This recommendation will be done in accordance with guidelines as provided by the
Foundations Curriculum Committee.
• No more than twelve transfer credits may be earned in any one summer.
• All course work taken at other institutions for which Rhodes receives a transcript willThe Educational Program https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/77
49 of 52 7/25/23, 12:56 PM
be evaluated for transfer credit, and if pre-approved for transfer credit, will be posted
to the student’s record.
• A maximum of 64 credits or ﬁfty percent of the total credit required for a degree may
be accepted towards a Rhodes degree. No student may earn additional transfer
credit once that credit limit has been reached.
• Transfer credits based on a quarter system are converted to the Rhodes credit basis
using the formula that one quarter-hour equals two-thirds credit. Fractional transfer
credits will be credited.
• Students earning both transfer credits and Advanced Placement, Cambridge Pre-U,
International Baccalaureate, and/or Option International Baccalaureate credits may
apply a maximum combined total of ﬁfty percent of the total credit required for a
degree to the Rhodes degree. A student with such credit must earn at least ﬁfty
percent of the total credit required for a degree in residence at Rhodes.
• Of the 32 credits earned to qualify for the senior year in residence, a maximum of
eight credits may be transfer credit.
• Transfer credits are not accepted if the grade is D+ or below. Transfer courses taken
on a Pass/Fail basis must be passed with a grade of C or better. Conﬁrmation of
such a grade must be received by the Registrar before the course will be accepted
for transfer credit. Transfer credits are credited to the Rhodes transcript as credits
only; they are not computed in or used to determine the grade point average.
• Courses taken on a college campus prior to matriculation by accepted students,
including those which are taken in conjunction with a dual enrollment program at the
secondary school level, will be accepted for credit under the same guidelines as
stated above, including review by the appropriate department at Rhodes, only if such
coursework does not satisfy high school graduation requirements or requirements for
admission to Rhodes. Such courses must be taken on a college campus, not in a
high school even if taught by collegiate faculty. Credit for such courses must be
requested during the summer prior to enrollment at Rhodes. Students who have not
graduated from high school who present such courses for transfer credit are not
considered transfer students.
Printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/educational-program/requirements-degree
The Paul Barret, Jr. Library, Information Services
Barret Library, made possible by a major gift from the Paul Barret, Jr. Trust, opened in
August, 2005. Paul Barret, Jr., a graduate of the class of 1946 who died in 1999, was the
nephew of Mr. and Mrs. A.K. Burrow, who provided for the construction of the 1953
Burrow Library.
Barret Library is home to Information Services (under Academic Affairs), a union of LibraryThe Educational Program https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/77
50 of 52 7/25/23, 12:56 PM
Services, Information Technology Services, and Academic Technology Services.
 Together, the division is committed to providing acquisition, organization, and circulation
of resources with a wide range of technology resources to support the diverse work of
faculty, staff, and students; as well as instruction to classes and individuals in effective
information and technology literacy.
Services offered in Barret Library include a 24-hour study space (Middle Ground), group
study rooms, and assistance with technology and academic research. Also included in the
Barret Library are areas for peer-tutoring, writing assistance, computer labs, the Digital
Media Lab,  Podcast/Recording room, and the distraction reduced testing room for those
students registered with the Ofﬁce of Student Accessibility Services. Information Services
staff support over 150 technology-equipped classrooms and event spaces across campus.
The Library collection includes materials that constitute valuable resources for
undergraduate instruction in a liberal arts institution. This collection has been carefully
built over a period of years by the teaching faculty with input from students and the
Information Services staff. The research catalog is part of WorldCat, which connects and
shares thousands of library catalogs across the country. The interface allows you to see
holdings within other libraries as well. The collection includes access to a large amount of
online content including electronic journals, e-books, databases, and ﬁlm streaming
services that support the college’s curriculum.
In addition to the reference and circulating collections there are four special collections:
the Rhodes Archives, the Richard Halliburton Collection, the Walter P. Armstrong, Jr. Book
Collection and the Shelby Foote Collection, made possible through the generosity of Riea
and Steve Lainoff. The Walter P. Armstrong, Jr. Book Collection includes special items of
value added to the library through the years and the collection of ﬁrst editions of English
and American authors, many of them autographed. The Halliburton Collection consists of
manuscripts and artifacts relating to the life of this noted travel adventure writer.
The Rhodes Archives consists of publications about Rhodes of an historical nature as well
as student honors papers and books written by faculty and alumni. The Archives also
retains all available copies of College publications including yearbooks, catalogues, the
student newspaper and handbooks. There is an extensive collection of still images which
document life at the College.
DLynx, the Archives digital repository, provides access to digital items of historical value
and materials created by faculty, staff, and students. These materials include: digital
copies of the Sou’wester, the student newspaper, student honor papers, and hundreds of
images of student life from past decades. The Sou’wester, the student newspaper, has
been digitized from November 1919 to the present date. The Ranking Web of World
Repositories” lists DLynx as 113 out of 1646 digital collections in North America which
places it in the top 10%.The Educational Program https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/77
51 of 52 7/25/23, 12:56 PM
In order to effect optimum inter-institutional library service to the students, faculty, and staff
of the Greater Memphis Consortium, the Barret Library joins the following libraries in
making their collections available to each other’s students and faculty: Christian Brothers
University Library, Hollis F. Price Library of LeMoyne-Owen College, Ned W. McWherter
Library of the University of Memphis, and the Memphis Theological Seminary Library.
Students are also entitled to library cards in the Memphis Public Library, which is an
especially valuable community resource. The Barret Library operates an active and
invaluable interlibrary loan service for its faculty and students with libraries outside the
Memphis area.
Printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/educational-program/paul-barret-jr-library-
information-servicesThe Educational Program https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/77
52 of 52 7/25/23, 12:56 PM
Courses of Instruction
AFS 105 Introduction to Africana Studies
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 4
Africana Studies is the convergence and coalescence of interdisciplinary and intersectional
approaches to the study of Black Life on both sides of the Atlantic/across the Diaspora from the
17th century to the present. This course introduces participants to the ﬁeld of Africana Studies
through its key ideas, theoretical considerations, and substantive concerns. After beginning with a
critical overview of the history (or framing) of the discipline, the course is divided into six thematic
units that examine Art/Aesthetics, Religion, Gender/Sexuality, Social Structures,
Space/Geographies and the Body. These areas constitute central spaces of analysis within
Africana Studies.
Degree RequirementsTable of Contents
General Information
Programs of Study
The Educational Program
Matters of Record
Login
F9
AFS 150 Themes in Africana Studies
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 4
This introductory course examines African and/or Africana diasporic experiences through a
thematic approach. This thematic exploration may cover historical, cultural, theoretical, literary or
structrual aspects of the Black experience broadly deﬁned. Students will develop an appreciation
for the complexity and difersity of African and Africana diasporic realities.
AFS 205 Selected Topics in Africana Studies
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 4
Introduction to selected topics in Africana Studies. Topics vary with instructor./uni00A0May be repeated for
credit when topics vary.
AFS 220 Malcolm, Martin, Baldwin, and
America
Credits: 4
Malcolm X, Martin Luther King Jr., and James Baldwin were critical ﬁgures in the US Civil Rights
Movement. Though united in a quest for racial justice, they articulated distinct—and, at times,
conﬂicting—perspectives on the source of racial injustice and the path toward racial wholeness.
This course will engage the social thought and religious faith of these three intellectual leaders,
focusing on their trenchant critique of religion in America and the relevance of faith to social
justice. We will also discern the signiﬁcance of their thought for contemporary social justice
movements.
Degree Requirements
F1
AFS 305 Africana Theory
Term: Spring
Credits: 4
Africana Theory is an experience in critical thought, which makes legible - through lexicon and
perspective - the unique subjectivities and experiences of the African diaspora./uni00A0 This course is
both an invitation to and an endeavoring within a “new” set of criticisms collectivized at the point
where racial discourse meets or engenders blackness and/or African diasporic identities./uni00A0 It will
introduce particular ways of reading and speciﬁc ways of theorizing the blackness of texts, bodies,
culture, and experience. Grounded within literary, critical, and cultural theory, and considering
questions from the epistemological to the existential, it will equip the serious student with the
lenses, language(s), and vocabularies necessary to responsibly and accurately read the varied
textualities signiﬁed by the idea/concept of Africana.
/uni00A0
/uni00A0
AFS 310 The Black Freedom Struggle
Credits: 4
This course will explore the evolution of African American freedom struggles over the course of
the twentieth century. It will survey the critical organizations, institutions, and ﬁgures of the Black
freedom struggle and will examine the ideological diversity of a dynamic, often contentious
struggle that encompassed ever-shifting combinations of uplift politics, black nationalism,
liberalism, conservatism, and leftism. It will explore critical Black lives over the course of the
semester, including Ida B. Wells, Booker T. Washington, Marcus Garvey, Pauli Murray, Martin Luther
King, Jr., Malcolm X, Fannie Lou Hamer, Angela Davis, the founders of Black Lives Matter,
contemporary prison abolitionists, and others. The course will also introduce students to
foundational debates and issues through the interdisciplinary lens of Africana Studies. Additionally,
it will push students to ponder how the political, socioeconomic, and cultural endeavors of African
Americans have and continue to alter conventional understandings of "freedom," "justice,"
"democracy," and "equity" within and beyond the United States.
AFS 350 Race Thinking and Health Disparities
Term: Spring
Credits: 4
Focusing on the experiences of African Americans, this course will examine the relationship
between race as a social construction, the social determinants of health disparities, and bias in
healthcare delivery. We will examine how the concept of race developed and how it became
embedded in law and social structures with the result that African-Americans face greater
exposures to health hazards, lower quality of care, and structural stigma that negatively aﬀect
health outcomes.
ANSO 103 Introductory Anthropology
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits:  4
Anthropology, in the largest sense of the discipline, is the study of what it is to be human. In
attempting to understand the diversity of thought and behavior that is characteristic of humans, we
better understand ourselves, our potentials and our limitations. Further, the process of listening to
and learning from others allows us to grant dignity and respect to those that we might otherwise
naively dismiss as “primitives.” This course covers the basic data, concepts, and theories of cultural
anthropology placing emphasis on the foundations of human society, social organization, culture,
and symbol systems. Not open to seniors.
Degree Requirements
F9
ANSO 105 Introductory Sociology
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits:  4
Sociology emerged in the late nineteenth century as an attempt to understand and explain the
unprecedented changes in social organization and human relations resulting from modernization.
This course provides a general overview of the sociological concepts, theories, and empirical
research that concern the problems of modernity and contemporary American society. The naive,
popular view of individuals as “free-standing, autonomous subjects” is critically assessed and a
more comprehensive understanding of individuals as “social” selves that are both products and
producers of institutions and social relationships is examined. In addition to introducing students to
the ﬁeld of sociology, the course aims to cultivate self-understanding and critical insight into the
conditions of contemporary existence, including social stratiﬁcation by race, social class, and
gender. Not open to seniors.
Degree Requirements
F8
ANSO 201 Human Evolution: The Intersections
of Biology, Environment and Culture
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 4
To understand our present physical and social condition, we must understand our evolutionary
past. This course is an introduction the fundamentals that contribute to our understanding of
human evolution--evolutionary biology, genetics, primatology, paleaontology, physical
anthropology, geology and archaeology. You will learn about the methods involved in
reconstructing ancient human anatomy,
behavior, and use of their environments, which have situated our own evolutionary history (both
biological and cultural) within the current world. Through class lectures and discussions, we will
address topics such as what makes us human, the validity of the concept of race, our relations to
Neanderthals and the beginning of the human manipulations of plants.
Degree Requirements
Archaeology Elective
Environmental Studies Elective
F7
ANSO 202 Understanding the Past:
Archaeological Perspectives on Culture
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 4
What does it mean to be a human being and what makes us unique? The study of the past can
shed light on the adaptability and variability of the human race as we expanded throughout the
globe. In this course we will use archaeological data to understand the earliest cultures and how
they gave rise to the myriad of human lifeways existing in the world today.
Degree Requirements
Archaeology Elective
ANSO 207 Archaeology of Sex and Gender
Term: Fall
Credits: 4
This course focuses on sex and gender in prehistory and in archaeological theory. This course
seeks to reconstruct the lives and roles of women, men, and children in a range of ancient
societies, examining the ways that gendered diﬀerences have been portrayed in the past and the
present and considering how we can approach the study of social identities and relations of
power. We will examine how women contributed to subsistence, technological innovation,
symbolic and ritual activity, and how they shared in or were denied social, political, and religious
authority and power. We will also explore the contributions of women archaeologists and the
intellectual history of gender and sexuality studies in anthropological archaeology.
Degree Requirements
Archaeology Elective
Gender and Sexuality Studies Elective
ANSO 211 Peoples of Sub-Saharan Africa and
Madagascar
Term: Fall
Credits: 4
We all come from Africa, yet most of us know little about our origins and little about subsequent
cultural developments on the continent and surrounding islands./uni00A0 Those developments include not
only a wide-ranging variety of subsistence strategies, but also the origins of numerous and diverse
independent complex states across the continent./uni00A0 This course provides an introduction to the
prehistory, culture history, and contemporary cultures of sub-Saharan Africa and Madagascar./uni00A0 It
also includes the study of various cultural practices and theoretical issues that have continued to
fascinate anthropologists and animate ethnological discussion, including state formation, witchcraft
beliefs, oral traditions, and indigenous philosophy./uni00A0 African ﬁction and ﬁlm will also be examined as
important sources that can contribute to a fuller appreciation of African and Malagasy culture.
Degree Requirements
F9
Africana Studies Elective
ANSO 215 The Final Frontier: Peopling and
Peoples of the Paciﬁc
Term: Fall
Credits: 4
The course will begin by examining why the Paciﬁc Islands were the “ﬁnal frontier” of the human
occupation of the globe. The focus will then shift to the vast array of normal cultural strategies
employed among Paciﬁc Islanders regarding subsistence activities, social, political and economic
organization, cosmological beliefs, and celebratory practices. Anthropologists also use the
information they acquire to reﬂect upon theoretical arguments concerning cultural organization
and human practices. Ethnographic studies in the Paciﬁc have contributed to ongoing discussions
concerning non-market based economies, “primitive” warfare, varieties of celebration and
decoration (e.g., the hula and tattooing), and marketing the “exotic” to the West. This course will
also examine the contribution of Paciﬁc ethnography to such larger discussions in the ﬁeld of
anthropology./uni00A0
Degree Requirements
F9
ANSO 221 North of the Rio Grande: Indigenous
People of North America
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 4
This is not a traditional course about Native Americans in North America. In this course, we will
move beyond categorizing Native peoples, their cultural beliefs and practices, and historical
experiences according to familiar anthropological categories (e.g., “prehistory” and “band, tribe,
chiefdom, state”). Instead, you are encouraged to question conventional assumptions and
stereotypes about and depictions of indigenous peoples and cultures of North America. We will
discuss the social, economic, and political facets of what make these communities complex
whether they are hunter-gatherers, horticulturalists, and/or capitalists. Key topics, such as the
historical development of the ﬁeld of archaeology and anthropology, environmental interactions of
Native communities, cultural change and continuity, colonialism, and power will be explored.
Degree Requirements
F9
Archaeology Elective
Environmental Studies Elective
ANSO 231 Gender and Society
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 4
This course examines how and why society prescribes diﬀerent gender expectations to men and
women. In turn, we will discuss how those expectations aﬀect the experiences, attitudes, and
opportunities of men and women in society. Students will gain the conceptual and theoretical tools
to analyze the personal, interactional, and institutional consequences of diﬀerent social
constructions of gender.
Degree Requirements
Gender and Sexuality Studies Elective
ANSO 233 Sociology of Sport
Term: Fall
Credits: 4
This course provides an introduction to sociological perspectives in the study of sport. It focuses
on sport as a cultural and social institution and explores the ways in which sports shape
individuals’ identities and are shaped by broader cultural, political and economic forces. Students
will examine the intersections of race, class, gender and disability as they analyze the links
between sports and the body, fandom, education, violence, the media, exploitation, and
resistance.
Degree Requirements
F8
ANSO 235 Sociology of the South
Term: Spring
Credits: 4
The American South is known for its cultural distinctiveness. What is the South? What does it mean
to be a southerner? How does being from or in the South impact one’s perspective on life? These
are some of the questions explored in Sociology of the South. This course examines the history,
cultures, and experiences of the South and southerners with particular attention to inequality, past
and present popular culture, its relationship with other regions, and its impact on science.
ANSO 241 The City
Term: Spring
Credits: 4
In this course, we will explore how cities are made, experienced, changed, and contested. We will
examine urban processes in an eﬀort to better understand how urban places shape people’s lives
and how people shape urban places. We will study how injustices are reproduced and challenged,
particularly as they relate to issues of urban development, housing, transportation, poverty,
surveillance and safety, immigration, tourism, planning, governance, and neighborhood change.
We will explore our own positions within broader relations of domination, oppression, and
resistance as well as our roles in imagining and creating alternative urban futures.
/uni00A0
Degree Requirements
Educational Studies Elective
Urban Studies Elective
ANSO 245 The Sociology of Community-
Integrative Education
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 4
Community-integrative education occupies a central place in American higher education. Courses
containing community-based learning can be found in virtually all disciplines and all types of
colleges and universities. This course examines the historical emergence of community-integrative
education, its institutional practice, variations and issues. Intensive writing assignments and
reﬂexive classroom discussions will guide student reﬂection on their community experience,
classroom learning and personal development.
Degree Requirements
F2i
F11
ANSO 251 Nature and Society: Decentering
Humans
Term: Spring
Credits: 4
European Enlightenment emerged as a response to Europe’s Dark Ages, a long era in which
human reasoning and scientiﬁc explanations were condemned. The outcome of this process of
“enlightenment” was the separation of humans from nature. Due to this separation, humans were
elevated above nature and nature was regarded solely as a passive resource to be controlled and
exploited. This destructive human-nature distinction did not remain conﬁned to what was human
and what was not. It created categories of sub-humans, which included non-European non-
Christian people from the Americas to Southeast Asia, as well as women. What emerged out of
enlightenment was a patriarchal system which viewed nature and non-Western people as primitive
and exploitable.
In this course we explore this history and its consequences in the past, present, and future. To do
so, we will draw on critical approaches to science, political ecology, environmental justice,
ecofeminism, indigenous wisdom, critical race theory, and posthumanism. These perspectives not
only prepare us to deconstruct the abovementioned dichotomy, but also equip us with analytical
perspectives which enable us to imagine a wholistic and inclusionary relationship between
humans and non-humans through decentering humans.
/uni00A0
ANSO 254 Archaeological Methods
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 4
This class will examine how we use archaeological materials to learn about past societies by
studying the traces that their inhabitants left behind. Students will explore the range of methods
used in the ﬁeld, laboratory, and museum to ﬁnd, record, date, preserve, contextualize, and
interpret material culture. Basic methods of investigation and research will be discussed through
the examination of site survey, excavation, and the analysis of artifacts. Students will be introduced
to various systems of archaeological classiﬁcation and analytical techniques for understanding
objects such as lithic artifacts, pottery, human skeletal remains, and other historic and prehistoric
artifacts. Artifact illustration, photography, cataloguing, and curating will also be discussed. (This
course is cross-listed as Archaeology 220).
Degree Requirements
Archaeology Elective
Greek and Roman Studies Elective
ANSO 255 Field Anthropology
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 1 - 4
This course allows students to gain credit for participation in oﬀ-campus ﬁeld projects under
professional supervision in the ﬁelds of archaeological, social anthropological, and physical
anthropological research. Students will be required to integrate academic and ﬁeldwork
experiences in an oral and/or written report at the end of the ﬁeldwork experience. Maximum of 4
hours credit is possible.
ANSO 265 Selected Introductory Topics in
Anthropology and Sociology
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 4
Introduction to selected themes and topics in anthropology and sociology. Students may enroll
and receive credit for this course more than once as the course themes and topics change.
ANSO 271 Ecological Anthropology
Term: Fall
Credits: 4
This course emphasizes the interconnectedness between people and nature. We will be
concerned with people’s perceptions of and interactions with their physical and biological
surroundings, and the various linkages between biological and cultural worlds. The goals of the
class are to expose you to a broader understanding of the role of culture in sustaining the diversity
of plant and animal life and also reveal the variety of choices involved in our human-environmental
interactions. Topics to be explored include human alteration of the environment, the processes of
domestication, the ecology of indigenous and Western foodways, traditional ecological knowledge
of plants, natural resource sustainability, and conservation policies and politics through time and
space.
Degree Requirements
Archaeology Elective
Environmental Studies Elective
ANSO 273 Gender and Environment
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 4
This course explores how gender shapes our understanding and interactions with the
environment. We will analyze how we construct and maintain particular views of gender and
sexuality, and examine how our identiﬁcations produce, change, and maintain particular
environments within both Western and non-Western worlds. Within this class, we will shift between
1) discussions of philosophical and theoretical debates that underlie feminist environmental
thinking and practice, and 2) examinations of tangible struggles over environment and gender
within historical and geographical contexts. Topics to be examined in this course include: feminist
readings of “nature”; gender and the history of science; intersections between gender and
sexuality in relations to global and local ecological issues, feminist political ecology; traditional
ecological knowledge; environment and globalization; and environmental justice.
Degree Requirements
Archaeology Elective
Environmental Studies Elective
ANSO 275 Food and Culture
Term: Fall
Credits:  4
Food is not only important as nutrition, but as a symbol of identity, a marker of status, a sealer of
alliances and an item of social and economic currency. This course examines the myriad uses,
meanings and impacts of food cross-culturally. This contributes to the mission of the department,
giving students an in-depth view of one of the basic aspects of human cultures. Students will come
away with a more thoughtful and nuanced view of their own societal practices, as well as those of
many others. We will take a critical view of human relationships with their environments, vis-à-vis
food production in past and present communities. This class will serve not only for
anthropology/sociology majors and minors, but also for students with an interest in archaeology
and environmental studies and those in other disciplines who wish to broaden their understanding
of one of the most important and basic aspects of our lives and societies.
Degree Requirements
Environmental Studies Elective
ANSO 290 Learning from Things: Material
Culture Studies
Term: Fall
Credits: 4
While we are symbol users and inhabitants of imagined worlds, we are also toolmakers whose
hands are dirtied in manipulating the world. This course will focus attention on materiality and our
engagement with the material world. Examples of material culture studies will be drawn from such
disciplines as archaeology, anthropology, geography, history, folklore, popular culture, architecture,
and museum studies. We will also use our everyday environments – from Rhodes dorm rooms to
greater Memphis – as our laboratory, as we explore how our own material culture deﬁnes,
enables, and circumscribes our cultural worlds. Material culture studies, while a rich source of
information, is also a challenging arena for the study of individuals, societies, and cultures,
because objects speak neither unambiguously nor directly to us. Students will come to appreciate
how astute observation underpinned by theoretical acumen and the clever framing of questions
can allow us to “learn from things.” (This course is cross-listed as Archaeology 210.)
Degree Requirements
Archaeology Elective
Greek and Roman Studies Elective
ANSO 325 The Maya and Their World
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 4
This course draws on multiple perspectives to examine the shared practices, traditions, and
worldviews that have deﬁned Maya cultures in the past and the present. We will examine the
means through which we have come to understand prehispanic Maya societies, exploring how
archaeology, ethnohistory, anthropology, art history, and critical theory, as well as recent political
history, activism, identity politics, and popular media have shaped our interpretations of the Maya
past. Through the lens of 3000 years of continuities and transformations, we will consider the
formation of ancient and modern Maya identities in the face of collapse, migration, conquest,
political upheaval, and violence.
Pre-requisites: Any/uni00A0one/uni00A0of the following: either ANSO 103,/uni00A0or/uni00A0LAS 200,/uni00A0/uni00A0or/uni00A0permission of the
instructor.
Degree Requirements
F3
F9
Archaeology Elective
Latin American Studies Elective
ANSO 327 Gender and Power in Latin America
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits:  4
This course looks at the construction of sex and gender in Latin American societies, both past and
present, exploring anthropological approaches to the study of social identities, gender relations,
and the complex negotiation of power that they entail. We will examine anthropological,
ethnohistoric, and archaeological evidence to understand gender roles and ideologies and con-
sider how sex and gender intersect with ethnicity and social class in a range of prehispanic,
colonial, and postcolonial societies.
Degree Requirements
Archaeology Elective
Gender and Sexuality Studies Elective
Latin American Studies Elective
Prerequisites
Introductory Anthropology
Introduction to Latin American Studies
Introduction to Gender and Sexuality Studies
Gender and Society
ANSO 331 Race and Ethnicity in American
Society
Term: Fall
Credits:  4
In this seminar course, students will explore how the socially-constructed catego-ries of race and
ethnicity shape the lived experiences of people in the United States. We will address the roots and
current expressions of racial prejudice and discrimination, examining how everyday racism and
institutional racism produce and maintain inequality. Together, we will work to understand how race
and ethnicity inﬂuence our identities and opportunities. Along the way, we will also critically assess
how our actions can reproduce or work against racial inequality and injustice. By the end of the
course, students will have the conceptual and theoretical tools to think sociologically about race
relations in the United States.
Degree Requirements
Africana Studies Elective
Educational Studies Elective
Urban Studies Elective
Prerequisites
Introductory Anthropology
Introductory Sociology
ANSO 333 Sociology of Hip-Hop
Credits: 4
/uni00A0This course uses an interdisciplinary and intersectional lens to examine the social, economic, and
cultural signiﬁcance of hip-hop domestically and globally in the post-civil rights era. Drawing on
work in hip-hop studies and the ﬁelds of sociology, cultural studies, and gender studies, this
course roots the genealogy of hip-hop in other musical forms and analyzes hip-hop as a modern
and comprehensive expressive form that provides critical reﬂection on social phenomena.
Not open to ﬁrst-year students./uni00A0
Degree Requirements
F9
Africana Studies Elective
Gender and Sexuality Studies Elective
ANSO 335 Social Class in the United States
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 4
This course examines social class and inequality in American society. It draws on sociological
understandings of economic stratiﬁcation, socioeconomic status, class identity, class culture, and
social mobility to address a set of big questions. How do people draw and reinforce symbolic
boundaries between classes? How is inequality structured, reproduced and experienced through
social institutions? What roles do policy, philanthropy, and social movements play in tackling
manifestations of economic inequality? This course gives particular attention to the ways class
intersects with other forms of stratiﬁcation, including race, gender, and disability.
/uni00A0
Prerequisites: Anthropology/Sociology 103 or 105, or permission of the instructor.
Degree Requirements
Urban Studies Elective
ANSO 343 Social Movements
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 4
Group mobilizations and social movements, on the one hand, have been and are transforming our
social life, and on the other hand, have inﬂuenced how we perceive and experience our world and
people around us. In this course, we will ask: When do we learn that we want a structural change?
What does it take for a group of people to organize for change? Why and when do we start to defy
instead of accepting the status quo and abiding by the rules? Why don’t we constantly protest to
create our desired world? What do we lose, and what do we gain once we engage in contentious
politics? How do people organize for collective action? How do they recruit their members or
convince people to join? And how do they deﬁne their goals and choose their tactics and
strategies? Do movements die after they achieve their goals? Are there similarities between
movements across time and place? What are the criteria for successful social movements?
ANSO 345 Just Food: Race, Class, and Gender
in the US South
Term: Fall
Credits: 4
This course brings together theoretical perspectives from Anthropology, Food, Environmental and
Black Studies alongside hands-on, community-based experiences in Memphis. Through hands-on
experiences at diﬀerent ﬁeld sites, invited lectures and weekly discussions, students will engage in
questions concerning: a) how to theorize, research, and address food inequalities across time and
space; b) how to build food movements within and across lines of diﬀerence; and c) how diﬀerent
forms of inequality intersect in the lives of Memphis residents. The focus in this course is on
southern cities due to the vast social and economic, food-based issues that community members
face in these cities. Food has a deep historical past and connection within this region and this
course will help to explore the past, present and future those connections. Our ultimate goal is to
bring together students and community partners in synergistic ways to promote cultural
engagement and problem-solving of our most pressing social, political, and economic issues of the
21st century – food equity.
Prerequisite: ANSO 103, or ANSO 105, or AFS 105, ENVS 150, or Permission of the Instructor
/uni00A0
Degree Requirements
Africana Studies Elective
Environmental Studies Elective
Gender and Sexuality Studies Elective
Urban Studies Elective
ANSO 347 Medical Sociology
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 4
Medical sociology is the study of the socio-cultural factors that aﬀect health, illness, disease, and
medical care. Topics include epidemiology, social demography of health, the relationship between
social stress and health, health and illness behavior, the physicianpatient relationship, and the
organization of health care and medical practice. These topics will be studied through classroom
lectures and discussions. This course is recommended for pre-med, health science majors, and
social science majors.
Degree Requirements
Urban Studies Elective
Prerequisites
Introductory Sociology
ANSO 351 Introduction to Social Research
Term: Fall
Credits: 4
How do we produce knowledge that is useful? The social sciences have a set of powerful tools for
investigating the social world. This course provides a general introduction to the sociological
research, including research design, data collection, basic analysis and interpretation of data and
research ethics. A range of quantitative and qualitative research methods, such as surveys, in-
depth interviews and participant observation are covered. Students will translate their substantive
interest into an empirical project. They will also develop the skills to make sense of published
research and assess its quality.
This course is restricted/uni00A0to ANSO/uni00A0majors and minors. Any exceptions must be made by/uni00A0permission
of the instructor.
Degree Requirements
Educational Studies Elective
Prerequisites
Introductory Sociology
ANSO 352 Ethnography at Home: Engaging in
Another World
Term: Spring
Credits: 4
Participant-observation is the methodological core of anthropology. Yet, participant-observation is
a critical qualitative method that should be exercised across all disciplines and professions that
address the human condition. We will explore this assertion in practice and in discussion around
the seminar table. This course will focus on the “doing” of ethnography by asking you to
respectfully, socially, meaningfully, and sensuously engage with a moment in another’s world in the
larger Memphis community. One way to describe ethnography is as a compelling descriptive
pause to appreciate another way of being in and giving meaning to the world before one begins
sustained and systematic social analysis and theorizing. Students will write a series of short papers
that contribute toward the writing of a descriptive ethnography and the presentation of their
ﬁndings to a campus audience.
This course is restricted/uni00A0to ANSO/uni00A0majors and minors. Any exceptions must be made by/uni00A0permission
of the instructor.
Degree Requirements
F2i
F11
Prerequisites
Introductory Anthropology
ANSO 361 Special Problems
Term: Fall
Credits: 1-4
Designed to encourage senior or advanced junior majors to study intensively in an area of their
special interest.
ANSO 362 Special Problems
Term: Spring
Credits: 1-4
Designed to encourage senior or advanced junior majors to study intensively in an area of their
special interest.
ANSO 365 Special Topics in
Anthropology/Sociology
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 4
This course emphasizes contemporary and emergent themes in the respective disciplines as a
means of keeping students abreast of substantial developments in these dynamic ﬁelds of social
inquiry. Students may enroll and receive credit for this course more than once as the course theme
changes.
Prerequisites
Introductory Anthropology
Introductory Sociology
ANSO 371 Psychological Anthropology
Term: Spring
Credits: 4
Anthropologists argue that rather than seeing the mind of “the other” as an imperfect or
incomplete version of our own, we must approach it as an “alternative form.” In this course we will
be investigating questions such as: Do members of non-Western cultures “sense and think” like
members of Western cultures? Do individuals from a non-literate culture actually reason diﬀerently
from members of a literate culture? Is one culture’s schizophrenic another culture’s saint? Are
some psychological disorders speciﬁc to certain cultures? Why is it that close to 90% of the world’s
cultures sanction some form of an altered state of consciousness? This course is recommended
for students of both anthropology and psychology.
Degree Requirements
F9
ANSO 372 Alternative Realities: Symbols,
Rituals, World Views
Term: Spring
Credits: 4
Humans are always searching for meaning and order beyond the limits of the activities that are
needed to guarantee their immediate survival. This course will consider the role of symbolic
activity in the construction and maintenance of coherent and comprehensive systems of meaning
that integrate human experience with the workings of the larger world or cosmos.
Degree Requirements
F9
Prerequisites
Introductory Anthropology
ANSO 374 Nationalism, Identity, and Belonging
Term: Spring
Credits: 4
wo world wars engulfed large areas of the world and impacted large populations inside and
outside Europe. In the post-World War II era, with the rise of international organizations and
globalization, many argued that we have moved into a new epoch and context in which traditional
nation-states will increasingly lose their power. These thinkers were proven wrong. The rise of
nationalist movements which promoted discourses of exclusion and self-determination, at times
through violent means, shows how nation-states, their border and boundaries, and ideologies of
nationalism, are here to stay as the major geopolitical actors.
This course, through a historical lens, investigates the scholarly debates around nationalism and
nation-building processes to learn: What are nations, and what is nationalism? How are nations
built and preserved? What role do history, memory and law play in these processes? How do
nationalism and national belonging manifest themselves in our daily practices? What is the
relationship between national identity and citizenship? What role do borders and boundaries play
in nation-building projects?
/uni00A0
Prerequisites
Introductory Anthropology
Introductory Sociology
ANSO 375 Anthropology and the Written Word
Credits: 4
This course examines various issues involving orality and literacy and their consequences for
ourselves and others whose lives we wish to understand. The cultural contexts surrounding the
invention and use of writing systems as well as the eﬀects of literacy on mind and society will also
be studied. Anthropologists use writing to record some of their knowledge about other peoples
and cultures. While anthropologists have produced numerous “scholarly” texts, they have also
pursued other writing projects: autobiographies of individuals from non-Western societies, poetry,
novels, science ﬁction and literary texts, which may or may not conform to Western literary
traditions. This course will not only explore some of these genres of writing but will involve a
component of creative writing as well.
Prerequisites
Introductory Anthropology
ANSO 377 Migration, Dislocation, and
Transnationalism in Latin America and the U.S.
Term: Fall
Credits: 4
This course explores contemporary issues and debates surrounding migration between Latin
America and the U.S. and within Latin America. We will critically examine the causes of
displacement, the eﬀects of dislocation on migrants and their home communities, and the
transborder, transnational ties that characterize migrant families and migrant labor in a globalized
world. Themes for exploration include: changing conceptions of “the borderlands” and immigration
policy; the security state, militarization of the border, and migrant detention; labor conditions and
vulnerable, migratory work forces; drugs, violence, and organized crime; sex, gender, and
migration; the politics and rhetoric of dehumanization; and resistance and activism at the border.
Pre-requisite:/uni00A0Any one of the following: ANSO 103, ANSO 105, LTNS 200, or permission of the
instructor
/uni00A0
Degree Requirements
Latin American Studies Elective
ANSO 379 From the Global to the Local:
Anthropology of Social Change
Term: Spring
Credits: 4
This course oﬀers a critical examination of the interaction between industrial nations of the
developed world and indigenous and tribal societies of the Third and Fourth Worlds. Geographical
focus will vary according to the instructor’s area of expertise. Topics covered will include most or
all of the following: a concept of “progress,” human rights, environmental ethics, indigenous
movements, the politics of development, and cultural tourism.
Pre-requistes: Any/uni00A0one/uni00A0of the following: either ANSO 103,/uni00A0or/uni00A0LAS 200,/uni00A0or/uni00A0GSS 200,/uni00A0or/uni00A0permission
of the instructor.
Degree Requirements
Educational Studies Elective
Latin American Studies Elective
ANSO 380 Explorations in Social Theory
Term: Fall
Credits: 4
The major goal of this course is to help students identify and understand explanations of the social
world and social actors that have become elevated to the status of social theory. Lectures will
present certain “classical” directions of thought in social analysis. Students will undertake “critical”
analyses of primary sources and write a series of reﬂective essays on their intellectual
engagement with theoretical schools. These essays will serve as foci for seminar format sessions
during the semester.
This course is restricted/uni00A0to ANSO/uni00A0majors and minors. Any exceptions must be made by/uni00A0permission
of the instructor.
Prerequisites
Introductory Anthropology
Introductory Sociology
ANSO 391 Racism
Term: Fall
Credits: 4
Race is a socially constructed term that has real world implications that have historically resulted in
acts of racism perpetuated on members of subordinate groups. This course provides an in-depth
understanding of how racism, individual and institutional, has impacted members of subordinated
groups in the United States and globally. This course includes examinations of the historical
development and implications of individual and institutional racism. However, the course largely
focuses on contemporary matters. Students are periodically assigned questions that must be
answered in the form of an essay based on the student’s interpretation of assigned readings.
Student essays provide a context for seminar discussions of lectures and readings in sociological
and social science theory.
Pre-Requisites: ANSO 103, ANSO 105, AFS 105, or permission of the instructor.
/uni00A0
Degree Requirements
F9
ANSO 392 The Sociology of Violence and
Peacemaking
Term: Spring
Credits: 4
This seminar examines violence and peacemaking from a constructionist sociological framework.
Interpretive, interpersonal, institutional and structural forms of violence are examined by reading
personal narratives, testimonials and sociological studies. Following the insights of a wide range of
thinkers, the seminar also explores the sense in which the violence implicit in knowledge and
language may be understood as a core form of violence. Shifting focus to the study of
nonviolence, the relation between dialogic understanding and peacemaking is then explored in
reference to the work of Gandhi and Martin Luther King, Jr. The seminar concludes with a case
study of the civil rights movement in St. Augustine, Florida.
Prerequisites
Introductory Sociology
ANSO 393 Black Feminist Thought
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 4
/uni00A0This course explores the micro-level and institutional intersections of race, class, gender, and
sexuality from social scientiﬁc and humanistic perspectives by placing African American women’s
thought at the center of class discourse. It maps the genealogy of African American feminist
thought from early American “race women” to contemporary, “third-wave,” hip-hop, and digital
black feminists. It will consider various instantiations of black feminist identity and activism and
explore black feminist praxis.
Not open to ﬁrst-year students.
Degree Requirements
F9
Africana Studies Elective
Gender and Sexuality Studies Elective
ANSO 394 Black Sociology
Term: Spring
Credits: 4
This course examines the academic and public contributions of early Black sociologists, social
scientists and intellectuals whose relevance and importance to academia have historically been
excluded from narratives on the development of science in the United States. The works of
persons like W. E. B. Du Bois and the Atlanta Sociological Laboratory, Ida B. Wells, Zora Neale
Hurston, Augustus Granville Dill and other little-known scholars are analyzed. Students will gain the
conceptual and theoretical tools to properly identify the contributions of Blacks to the sciences,
analyze individual and structural racism/discrimination and develop skills to critically assess
solutions to issues of race and racism in the United States.
/uni00A0
Degree Requirements
F9
Prerequisites
Introductory Anthropology
Introductory Sociology
Introduction to Africana Studies
ANSO 451 Research
Term: Fall
Credits: 1-4
This course allows senior and advanced junior majors to become active participants in ongoing
departmental research projects.
ANSO 452 Research
Term: Spring
Credits: 1-4
This course allows senior and advanced junior majors to become active participants in ongoing
departmental research projects.
ANSO 460 Internship
Credits: 4
A supervised learning experience involving archaeological and/or material culture studies out of
state, abroad, or in the community
outside of the college. This may include museums, laboratories, cultural resource management
ﬁrms, cultural conservation projects,
historical landmarks, surveying ﬁrms, etc. The student and the faculty advisor will devise the
program of ﬁeld work and submit it for
approval to the chair of the Archaeology Program.
ANSO 470 Fellowship in Anthropology and
Sociology
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: No Credits
An Anthropology or Sociology (ANSO) fellowship is an extended activity outside the conventional
classroom that complements and broadens the student’s major of anthropology and sociology
within the liberal arts setting. This fellowship oﬀered in our department will help contextualize the
students’ engagement in the classroom, foster a sense of professional identity, include team-
building or collaborative learning and develop critical reﬂection skills. Under the mentorship of an
ANSO faculty member, these opportunities will typically take place over the course of a semester
and may entail bi-weekly meetings.
ANSO 485 Advanced Research Design
Term: Fall
Credits:  4
In preparation for Senior Seminar, students in this course will be guided through the following
research design processes:
• constructing a literature review
• developing a theoretical framework
• developing a methodological approach and plan of work
• constructing a full research proposal
• completing and submitting an IRB application
Prerequisites
Introductory Anthropology
Introductory Sociology
Introduction to Social Research
Explorations in Social Theory
ANSO 486 Senior Seminar
Term: Spring
Credits:  4
This capstone course requires students to integrate knowledge and skills that have been acquired
throughout their studies as majors in the department. Students will engage in an ongoing critical
analysis of contemporary contributions to theory and research in anthropology and sociology.
Students will design and conduct a research project that culminates in a research paper and
formal presentation.
Prerequisites
Introductory Anthropology
Introductory Sociology
Introduction to Social Research
Ethnography at Home: Engaging in Another World
Explorations in Social Theory
Advanced Research Design
ANSO 495 Honors Tutorial
Term: Fall
Credits: 4-8
Open to candidates for honors in the department./uni00A0A tutorial consisting of advanced original
research.
ANSO 496 Honors Tutorial
Term: Spring
Credits: 4-8
Open to candidates for honors in the department. A tutorial consisting of advanced original
research.
ART 101 Drawing
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 4
An introduction to drawing in various media.
Degree Requirements
F5
ART 102 Intro to Digital Art
Term: Fall
Credits: 4
Introductory studio experience in the use of digital technology in the ﬁne arts. Topics include digital
imaging, motion graphics, video editing, and computer animation. This course will also trace
technologically driven art from pioneering eﬀorts to current trends, and the central role played by
computers in the ﬁeld of electronic art.
Degree Requirements
F5
ART 105 Painting
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits:  4
An introduction to the fundamentals of acrylic painting, including its formal and conceptual
properties. Class is suitable for all levels of experience including ﬁrst-time artists.
Lab fee for materials is required.
Degree Requirements
F5
ART 107 Sculpture
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits:  4
Emphasis will be on the development of ideas as they relate to traditional and non-traditional
approaches to making art. Students will develop skills in modeling, casting, wood working, and
alternative media. This course situates students within the contemporary art world and challenges
them to articulate thoughts and concepts through the art making process.
Degree Requirements
F5
ART 110 Film and Experimental Video
Production
Term: Spring
Credits:  4
An introduction to the production of ﬁlm and video. Students will explore a variety of ﬁlm making
practices by producing works in narrative and documentary genres as well as experimental videos
and art ﬁlms. Using a wide variety of tools, students will gain experience in cinematography, non-
linear video editing, and sound production while also expanding their understanding of the
histories, practices and theories of ﬁlmmaking.
Degree Requirements
F5
ART 115 Creative Publishing: Zines, Comics,
Manifestos and Artist's Books
Term: Spring
Credits: 4
Students in this course will conceptualize, design, print, publish and distribute original zines of their
own creation./uni00A0 Students will utilize a variety of analog and digital methods of design, drawing,
collage, scanning, photocopying, printing, marketing and distribution./uni00A0 Assignments focus on the
creative pipeline for DIY publishing./uni00A0 Students will expand their understanding of the histories,
practices and theories of creative publishing as a creative practice.
Degree Requirements
F5
ART 116 Digital Animation
Credits: 4
An introduction to the techniques and expressive possibilities of experimental animation. Digital
and analog processes will be explored, such as stop-motion, collage, cut paper, erasure,
rotoscoping, keyframing, claymation and motion graphics. Students will create original animations
through weekly exercises and longer-term projects that examine production and content. Projects,
discussions and critiques will be informed by weekly screenings, readings and tutorials of
contemporary and historical animated art works.
/uni00A0
Degree Requirements
F5
ART 120 Chemistry and Art
Term: Spring
Credits: 4
This is an interdisciplinary course investigating science and art through the analysis of related
themes and experiences. The course will not privilege one method of inquiry over another, nor
does it seek to compare or contrast them. Rather, it is the explicit goal to see artistic and scientiﬁc
inquiry as related expressions of the human mind. The instructors presuppose no more than a
general awareness of art history or applied science but we expect a commitment to investigate
aspects of both disciplines with equal enthusiasm.
Sophomore and First Year Students are given preference for at least half the enrollment./uni00A0 Junior
and Senior students are not eligible for pre-registration, but/uni00A0may be added/uni00A0via the waitlist process,
with permission from the instructors.
Degree Requirements
F5
F7
ART 151 Survey of Western Art
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 4
A survey of Western art from prehistory to the twentieth century. In the ﬁrst half of the semester
emphasis is placed on examining art within the producing cultures of ancient Egypt, the Near East,
classical Greece and Rome, the Byzantine world, and medieval Europe. The second half of the
semester emphasizes the development and expansion of Renaissance ideals of art, and the
reassessment of these ideals in the Nineteenth and Twentieth Centuries. Students will be exposed
to the basic methods of art historical analysis as well as the major techniques, artists, movements
and objects in the history of Western art. (Course oﬀered every semester.)
Degree Requirements
F3
F5
ART 152 Survey of Contemporary Art
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 4
A comprehensive introduction to European and American art and art criticism since 1940.
Movements and sensibilities to be studied include Abstract Expressionism, Pop, Minimal, Feminist,
and Neoexpressionism. Themes examined will include modernism and postmodernism, mass
culture, art and politics, gender, race, and other markers of identity. Artists include Pollock, Warhol,
Spero, Chicago, and Ringgold.
Degree Requirements
F3
F5
ART 166 Topics in Studio Art
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 4
Topics will vary from year to year with the instructor. Course may be repeated as long as topics are
diﬀerent.
ART 202 Intermediate Digital Art
Credits: 4
Studio experience in the use of digital technology in the ﬁne arts.
Prerequisites
Intro to Digital Art
ART 205 Intermediate Painting
Term: Spring
Credits: 4
Continued exploration of processes using acrylic paint with increased emphasis on content
ideation and personal project development.
Prerequisites
Painting
ART 207 Intermediate Sculpture
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 4
Emphasis will be on the development of ideas as they relate to traditional and non-traditional
approaches to making art. Students will develop skills in modeling, casting, wood working, and
alternative media. This course situates students within the contemporary art world and challenges
them to articulate thoughts and concepts through the art making process.
Students are expected /uni00A0to spend twelve hours per week on research and production. Students
must have permission from the instructor before registration. Studio courses require 138 hours of
work per term for four credits. A studio fee may be required for studio courses to cover the
expense of materials and equipment.
Oﬀered in alternate years
Recommended Pre-requisite: ART 151
Prerequisites
Sculpture
ART 209 Art and Architecture of the Ancient
Near East and Egypt
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 4
This course explores the art and architecture of the ancient Near East and Egypt. The
chronological survey will examine the materials, techniques, categories of artifacts, and
conventions (of both form and subject matter) of these cultures with a signiﬁcant emphasis on the
social, political, and religious contexts in which they were created. The rediscovery and study of
these cultures in the 19th and 20th centuries, the treatment of the people of these cultures as
Others by the West, and ethical issues related to the appropriation of this material by Westerners
will be discussed as a window into our understanding of the societies. Students will approach
ancient cultures through the eyes of art historians, archaeologists, and anthropologists. (Course
oﬀered in alternate years.)
Prerequisite: Survey of Western Art recommended, but not required.
Degree Requirements
F5
F9
Ancient Studies Elective
Archaeology Elective
ART 212 Introduction to Performance Art:
Making Everyday Actions Extraordinary
Credits: 4
In 1973, Mierle Ukeles was invited to exhibit her art at the Wadsworth Athenium Museum. Her
exhibition consisted of cleaning and maintaining the building, including a grueling 8 hours spent
washing its front steps. In 1990, Rirkrit Tiravanija cooked and served curry in a commercial gallery
in New York. The meal was free for anyone who wanted it. In 2010, Marina Abramović sat silently in
the lobby of the Museum of Modern Art for 736 hours. Visitors waited in line for hours, some
camping out for days, to sit in a chair across from her and look into her eyes. How can simple
actions like cleaning a staircase, cooking and serving food, or sitting across from a stranger be
considered art? In this class we'll explore the ways in which carefully considered interactions with
other people, objects, and spaces can become extraordinary experiences. We'll focus on everyday
activities and examine how actions like recontextualizing, scripting, and repeating these activities
can shift our understanding and impact an audience. We'll read about and recreate signiﬁcant
performances from the 1960's - today, and work individually and collaboratively to produce original
works of performance art. No prior performance experience is necessary./uni00A0
ART 216 3D Animation and Virtual Realities
Term: Spring
Credits: 4
This course will oﬀer students the opportunity to build virtual realities. Utilizing software such as
Autodesk Maya, students will 3D model objects, architecture, characters and environments to
create original animations of their own design./uni00A0 Students will expand their understanding of the
histories, theories and practices of 3D animation.
Oﬀered in alternate years.
Recommended pre-requisite: ART 151
Degree Requirements
F5
ART 218 Greek Art and Architecture
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 4
This course evaluates the visual culture and archaeological remains of the Greek lands from the
“Bronze Age” to the end of the Hellenistic period. In this course, we not only examine the visual
characteristics of the architecture, painting, and sculpture of ancient Greece, but also interpret
those characteristics within their historical and cultural context. We study the major religious,
funerary, and social rituals of the ancient Greeks and how the archaeological remains inform us of
those activities. (Course oﬀered in alternate years.)
Prerequisites: Survey of Western Art recommended, but not required.
/uni00A0
Degree Requirements
F5
Ancient Studies Elective
Archaeology Elective
ART 219 Roman Art and Architecture
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 4
This course is a chronological introduction to the art, architecture, and archaeology of the ancient
Roman world from the Republic to the time of Constantine. We will investigate what the Romans
themselves considered “art” the be and how to historically contextualize the variety of Roman
visual culture, including not only sculpture and architecture, but also fresco painting, coins,
gemstones, and urban infrastructure and design. Other topics to be considered include the
propagandistic and ideological use of visual culture by Roman emperors, issues of gender and
class in private patronage, domestic architecture, funerary art, and the art of the Roman provinces.
(Course oﬀered in alternate years.)
Prerequisites: Survey of Western Art recommended, but not required.
/uni00A0
Degree Requirements
F5
Ancient Studies Elective
Archaeology Elective
ART 220 Classical Archaeology
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 4
This course will address the material remains of the ancient Mediterranean, including
Mesopotamia, Egypt, the Aegean, Greece, Etruria, and Rome. By examining the history of the
rediscovery of the classical world we will come to understand “How do we know what we know
about antiquity?” through the personalities and methodologies of more than two centuries of
archaeological practice. We will also study ethical and legal questions related to classical
archaeology and the broader question of “Who owns the past?” by looking into case studies of
looting, theft, and museological issues./uni00A0(Course oﬀered in alternate years)
Prerequisite: Survey of Western Art recommended, but not required.
Degree Requirements
F3
F5
Ancient Studies Elective
Archaeology Elective
ART 221 Art and Spirituality in the Middle Ages
Term: Fall
Credits: 4
This course will examine the visual arts in Western Europe and the Byzantine East during the
period normally known as the Middle Ages. Chronologically this stretches roughly from the reign of
Constantine in the 4th century to the outbreak of the Black Death in Europe in 1348 (or stylistically
from the end of the classical period to the dawn of the Renaissance). During this era, Europe saw
strikingly new and original artistic forms, both in a secular context and in art related to the
increasingly inﬂuential Christian church. Emphasis of the course will be placed on the nature of art
and spirituality during these turbulent times. Other topics covered will include issues of aesthetics,
globalization, iconography, artistic style, the making and function of art objects, and women in the
Medieval world. This course will be require/uni00A0regular written assignments, a series of papers, and at
least one substantial rewrite./uni00A0(Course oﬀered in alternate years)
Prerequisites: History of Western Art recommended, but not required.
/uni00A0
/uni00A0
Degree Requirements
F2i
F5
Medieval through Baroque Elective
ART 223 Italian Renaissance Art
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 4
This course examines Italian art from about 1300-1580, with emphasis on the historical and social
context. Such themes as patronage, functions, theory, materials and techniques, style, gender and
sexuality, and the profession of the artist will be discussed. Artists treated include Giotto,
Brunelleschi, Masaccio, Donatello, Botticelli, Leonardo, Bramante, Raphael, Michelangelo, Titian,
and Palladio. (Course oﬀered every third semester.)
Prerequisites: History of Western Art recommended, but not required.
Degree Requirements
F5
Medieval through Baroque Elective
ART 226 Northern Renaissance Art
Term: Spring
Credits: 4
An examination of painting, sculpture, and the graphic arts in the Netherlands, Germany, and
France, from about 1400 to 1600, with emphasis on the historical and social context. Such themes
as the status of the artist, art and mysticism, iconography, and the relationship of Northern
European and Italian art and culture will be discussed. Artists include Jan van Eyck, Rogier van der
Weyden, Hieronymus Bosch, Albrecht Dürer, and Pieter Bruegel. (Course oﬀered in alternate
years.)
Prerequisites: History of Western Art recommended, but not required.
Degree Requirements
F5
Medieval through Baroque Elective
ART 228 Baroque Painting from Caravaggio to
Rembrandt
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 4
The course investigates European art ca. 1580-1750. Students will be introduced to the major
artists, subjects, and stylistic developments during this time period. Additional emphasis will be
placed on issues such as patronage, collecting, technique, women artists, and recent discoveries.
Artists covered include Caravaggio, Bernini, Gentileschi, Rembrandt, Vermeer, Velasquez, and
Rubens. (Course oﬀered in alternate years.)
/uni00A0
Prerequisites: History of Western Art recommended, but not required.
Degree Requirements
F5
Medieval through Baroque Elective
ART 234 American Art
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 4
A thematic examination of art produced in the United States from the colonial period to WWII with
special emphasis on the place of art and artists within a democracy. Themes include the
relationship between political and visual representation, landscape as metaphor, race and ethnicity
in art, and the tension between private and public patronage. Artists include Thomas Jeﬀerson,
Stuart Davis, and Frank Lloyd Wright. (Course oﬀered occasionally.)
Prerequisites: Survey of Western Art recommended, but not required.
Degree Requirements
F5
Modern Art Elective
ART 241 Modern Art I
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 4
A survey of the major European art movements from about 1760 to 1880. Special emphasis is given
to the interplay between politics and the emergence of new styles and subject matter in painting.
Artists covered include David, Goya, Constable, Delacroix, Friedrich, Courbet, Manet, and Monet.
(Course oﬀered occasionally.)
Prerequisites: Survey of Western Art recommended, but not required.
Degree Requirements
F5
Modern Art Elective
F2i
ART 242 Modern Art II
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 4
A survey of European art from 1880 to 1960. Themes examined include primitivism, the tension
between modern art and mass culture, the attempt to combine radical politics with formal
innovation, and the development of non-objective styles of painting. Movements discussed include
symbolism, fauvism, cubism, futurism, dada, surrealism, and abstract expressionism. (Course
oﬀered every third semester; next scheduled for Fall/uni00A02022.)
Prerequisites: Survey of Western Art recommended, but not required.
Degree Requirements
F2i
F5
Modern Art Elective
ART 245 Guernica and Antiwar Art
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 4
This course investigates how modern artists have opposed war over the past two centuries. It
begins with a focus on Pablo Picasso’s monumental painting, Guernica, considers the historical
precedents from which he drew inspiration, acknowledges the prevalence of war reporting and
propaganda in shaping public opinion of combat, and then traces the legacy of his example. Much
of the art under consideration was produced in the United States, so the course will provide one
perspective on the so-called American Century. In addition to developing the skills of close
looking, students will read both primary and secondary sources, as well as critical theory. All of this
will help us to consider the eﬃcacy of such art, especially that produced in a democracy. (Course
oﬀered in alternate years: scheduled for Spring 2023.)
Prerequisites: History of Western Art recommended, but not required.
Degree Requirements
F3
F5
Modern Art Elective
ART 260 Curation in Context: The Art of the
Exhibition in Memphis and Beyond
Term: Spring
Credits: 4
This course is a one semester class designed to teach students the basics of exhibiting art as well
as examining theoretical issues including but not limited to: the mission of a gallery, understanding
a gallery’s audience, and the role of exhibition spaces in a community. Working with the gallery
director students may be involved in: publicizing, preparing and designing of exhibits, proper
handling of works of art, hanging, lighting, labels, receptions, security, etc. for all exhibits during the
spring semester year. The class is only open to juniors and seniors or with permission of the
instructor.
Degree Requirements
F11
Modern Art Elective
Prerequisites
Survey of Western Art
ART 265 Topics in Art History
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 4
Topics will vary from year to year with the instructor./uni00A0Course may be repeated as long as topics are
diﬀerent.
Prerequisites
Survey of Western Art
ART 266 Intermediate Topics in Studio Art
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 4
A studio, open to both majors and non-majors, on varying subjects. May be repeated for credit.
Topics courses include landscape painting and ﬁgure painting.
ART 302 Advanced Digital Art
Credits: 4
Studio experience in the use of digital technology in the ﬁne arts./uni00A0
Prerequisites
Intermediate Digital Art
ART 305 Advanced Painting
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 4
Students taking advanced studio courses will further explore issues concerning media and
methods relevant to individually designated concepts and investigations. Students are expected to
spend twelve hours per week on research and production. Directed Inquiries can be
accommodated through any of the advanced studio oﬀerings. Studio courses require 138 hours of
work per term for four credits. A studio fee is required for every studio course to cover the
expense of materials and equipment. A 300-level class may be repeated at the 400-level course
designation, however, this is reserved for rare instances in which a student is already performing at
a graduate school level. Permission of instructor is required.
Prerequisites
Intermediate Painting
ART 307 Advanced Sculpture
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 4
Students taking advanced studio courses will further explore issues concerning media and
methods relevant to individually designated concepts and investigations. Students are expected to
spend twelve hours per week on research and production. Directed Inquiries can be
accommodated through any of the advanced studio oﬀerings. Studio courses require 138 hours of
work per term for four credits. A studio fee is required for every studio course to cover the
expense of materials and equipment. A 300-level class may be repeated at the 400-level course
designation, however, this is reserved for rare instances in which a student is already performing at
a graduate school level. Permission of instructor is required.
Prerequisites
Intermediate Sculpture
ART 330 Feminist Art
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 4
This course investigates the contributions of feminism to art practices since the 1960s. With
primary and secondary documents as our evidence and guide, we will assess the
accomplishments and limitations of overtly feminist art. Throughout the semester we will ask why
artists embraced the politics of feminism, how this shaped their own practices and perceptions of
modernism, and how this now helps us to see the great complexity of modern and contemporary
art./uni00A0(Course oﬀered in alternate years: next scheduled for Spring 2024)
Prerequisites: Survey of Contermporary Art recommended, but not required.
Degree Requirements
F3
F5
Modern Art Elective
Gender and Sexuality Studies Elective
ART 353 Art and Life in Pompeii
Term: Spring
Credits: 4
This course will focus on Pompeii and Herculaneum, also addressing material from sites like
Stabiae, Boscoreale, Boscotrecase, and Oplontis. We will examine these cities as case studies of
archaeology, Roman urbanism, and a particular period of Roman art. We will also consider the
impact of the rediscovery of these lost cities on the 19th century world. Previous completion of Art
151 or Art 219 is strongly recommended but not required. (Course oﬀered every third year.)
Degree Requirements
F5
Ancient Studies Elective
Urban Studies Elective
Archaeology Elective
ART 356 Michelangelo
Term: Spring
Credits: 4
An examination of the life and art of Michelangelo Buonarroti (1475-1564). Special attention will be
paid to stylistic, interpretive, and methodological issues, as well as the many controversies that
have surrounded his life and art from the Renaissance to the present. Works studied will include
painting, sculpture, architecture, drawings, and poetry. Class will combine both lecture and seminar
formats. Either Art History 151 or Art History 223 is strongly recommended but not required.
(Course oﬀered occasionally.)
Degree Requirements
F5
Medieval through Baroque Elective
ART 365 Advanced Topics in Art History
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 4
A seminar, open to both majors and non-majors, on varying subjects. May be repeated for credit so
long as topics are diﬀerent.
ART 366 Advanced Topics in Studio Art
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 4
A studio, open to both majors and non-majors, on varying subjects. May be repeated for credit as
long as topics are diﬀerent. Topics courses include landscape painting and ﬁgure painting.
Students taking advanced studio courses will further explore issues concerning media and
methods relevant to individually designated concepts and investigations. Students are expected to
spend twelve hours per week on research and production. Directed Inquiries can be
accommodated through any of the advanced studio oﬀerings. Studio courses require 138 hours of
work per term for four credits. A studio fee is required for every studio course to cover the
expense of materials and equipment. A 300-level class may be repeated at the 400-level course
designation, however, this is reserved for rare instances in which a student is already performing at
a graduate school level. Permission of instructor is required.
ART 375 Archaeological Field Work in Greece
Term: Maymester
Credits: 4
This program is a supervised training course in the methods of Classical archaeology at a
controlled excavation and in the relationship between newly discovered artifacts and those in
museums. Students will live in Greece and participate as crewmembers in the excavation,
registration, restoration, and publication of archaeological objects. They will also study famous art
objects and sites in an academic and museum/uni00A0setting, tracing the life history of such an object
from discovery to display and publication. Focusing on Crete in the Bronze Age, ca. 3000-1100
BCE, students will have the opportunity to examine the art of the Minoans at ﬁrst hand.
Degree Requirements
F5
F11
Archaeology Elective
Ancient Studies Elective
ART 386 Experiments in Media and Methods
Term: Spring
Credits: 4
Experimental Media and Methods is a required course in the sequence for the Rhodes College Art
Major & Minor. The purpose of this course is to introduce studio artists to the methods required for
the development of individually designed research AND creative projects, ultimately building
toward the personal body of work and portfolio. This work will be undertaken with the approval
and guidance of the art faculty as well as a group of peers. The required production component of
the course is 10 hours minimum investment out of class per week. Personal projects will be
exploratory, research driven and content centered and should result in the beginning of a body of
work to be carried through into the senior year.
This course is designed to focus speciﬁcally on content ideation and material/mode research.
Student-artists will cultivate actively chosen topics and subjects beginning the semester with wide,
open ended prompts and moving into non-assignment driven work later in the semester. Process
research is expected and ﬂexibility within technical modes is mandatory.
/uni00A0
ART 399 Tutorial for Honors Candidates
Term: Spring
Credits: 1
Students interested in reading for honors in the department of Art and Art History are required to
enroll in a preparatory tutorial in the spring semester of their junior year. Successful completion of
the tutorial does not necessarily guarantee acceptance into the Honors Program.
ART 460 Art/Archtectural Internship
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 1-4
Students are placed with local artists and/or regional galleries, design ﬁrms or architectural ﬁrms.
May be repeated for a total of six credits. Students may apply a maximum of four credits towards
the Art major or minor.
Degree Requirements
F11
ART 461 Museum/Gallery Internship
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 1-4
Fall or Spring. Credits: 1-4.An internship with a gallery or museum with a focus on the visual arts, or
an arts-related organization. Prerequisites: Approval of department Chair and oﬀer of placement
from an approved gallery or museum. Normally open only to Art majors and minors with junior or
senior standing. Students may apply a maximum of four credits towards the Art major or minor.
Degree Requirements
F11
ART 485 Senior Seminar
Term: Fall
Credits: 4
Art History Track. Advanced seminar involving theory, methodology, and historiography. Students
will submit a major research paper and conduct an oral presentation. Topics vary with instructor.
Required of all majors in the art history track. Prerequisites: Art History 151, 152, and at least three
200-level Art History courses.
Prerequisites
Survey of Western Art
Survey of Contemporary Art
ART 485 Senior Seminar
Term: Fall
Credits: 4
Individually designed creative projects or research undertaken with the approval and guidance of
the art faculty. Students are required to propose a ﬁfteen-week program of research, develop a
relevant body of work and artist statement, meet weekly for critiques with the instructor, and
maintain a digital portfolio of their work. In addition each student will participate in two formal
critiques with art faculty and a peer group at midterm and ﬁnal. This course is only oﬀered in the
Fall of Senior year.
ART 486 Senior Thesis
Term: Spring
Credits: 4
The continuation of the senior seminar in which students further develop and reﬁne creative
projects with the approval and guidance of the art faculty. This course culminates in a Thesis
Gallery Exhibition.This course is only oﬀered in the Spring of Senior year.
ART 495 Honors Tutorial
Term: Fall
Credits: 4
Honors Research/Independent Project for students who are seeking Honors during their senior
year of study.
ART 496 Honors Tutorial
Term: Spring
Credits: 4
Honors Research/Independent project. For students seeking Honors during their senior year of
study.
BIOL 104 Topics in Biology
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 4
Topics in Biology courses provide an in-depth understanding of a topic in the Biological Sciences.
As in other introductory biology courses, each Topics course details fundamental principles and
concepts in the discipline but in the context of a speciﬁc topic. Topics in Biology may be taken as
elective credit by students majoring in Biology provided they have not already taken an upper
level Biology course of similar content; however, Topics in Biology will not satisfy a course
requirement for the major in Biology.
BIOL 105 Topics in Biology with Laboratory
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 4
Similar to BIOL 104 but includes a laboratory component.
Degree Requirements
F7
BIOL 110 Biology for Global Citizens
Term: Spring, Fall, Summer
Credits: 4
Designed for students who are not majoring in/uni00A0biology,/uni00A0BIOL/uni00A0110/uni00A0provides students with the tools to
be scientiﬁcally literate global citizens. The course examines how science diﬀers from other
disciplines, how scientists acquire knowledge, and how science progresses. The course focuses
on fundamental/uni00A0biological concepts and explores the relationship between/uni00A0biology and students’
day-to-day world. Topics include characteristics of life, evolution, ecology, conservation/uni00A0biology,
climate change, human disease, health, agriculture, and biotechnology. This course will help
students to understand complex issues in/uni00A0biology and to develop critical thinking and analytical
tools to empower them to make informed decisions and to become responsible, scientiﬁcally
literate, global citizens.
Degree Requirements
F7
BIOL 115 Human Anatomy and Physiology I with
Lab
Term: Summer
Credits: 3, 1
An introduction to human anatomy and physiology designed for and required by some nursing,
physical therapy, and physician assistant programs. Often accepted to fulﬁll Anatomy and/or
Physiology requirements at pharmacy programs. This course is not designed or recommended for
those seeking acceptance at medical, dental, or veterinary medical schools. Biology 115, 115L will
not satisfy a course requirement for the major in Biology
BIOL 116 Human Anatomy and Physiology II
with Lab
Term: Spring
Credits: 3, 1
A continuation following Human Anatomy and Physiology I. Same speciﬁcs as Biology 115, 115L.
Prerequisites
Human Anatomy and Physiology I with Lab
BIOL 120 Introduction to Environmental
Sciences
Term: Fall
Credits: 4
This course focuses on a scientiﬁc understanding of the environment as well as on people’s
impact upon the natural world. Emphasis is on critical evaluation of environmental issues based on
scientiﬁc principles. The fundamental ecological principles are the foundations for the students’
learning and understanding of, among others, human population dynamics, natural resources,
energy sources and their use, and sustainable human systems. Through ﬁeld-based laboratories,
the students learn how to evaluate and quantify the ecosystem services provided by an urban park
like Overton Park. During the semester students collect and analyze data to estimate selected
ecosystem services such as: climate regulation or carbon dioxide removal, and water puriﬁcation.
Biology 120 will not satisfy a course requirement for the major in Biology.
Sophomore/uni00A0and ﬁrst-year students only./uni00A0 Junior and senior students may be allowed to enroll with
permission from the instructor./uni00A0
Degree Requirements
F7
BIOL 130 Biology I
Term: Fall
Credits: 3
An examination of the structure and functions of life at the cellular level. Topics include the
organization of prokaryotic and eukaryotic cells, the role of proteins in cell structure and
metabolism, membrane structure and function, bioenergetics, interactions between a cell and its
environment, and the mechanisms of heredity. Biology 130 and 131L are linked co-requisites. Both
must be completed successfully for F7 credit.
Degree Requirements
F7
BIOL 131 Biology I Lab
Term: Fall
Credits: 1
An introduction to investigative techniques in biology and skills required for the analysis and
presentation of scientiﬁc ﬁndings, with emphasis on topics at the cellular level./uni00A0 Biology 130 and
131L are linked co-requisites. Both must be completed successfully for F7 credit.
Degree Requirements
F7
BIOL 140 Biology II
Term: Spring
Credits: 4
A study of biological principles at the level of organisms and above. This course covers the
mechanisms of evolution; plant and animal development, anatomy, and physiology; behavior and
ecology. Biology 140 and 141L are linked co-requisites.
Prerequisites
Biology I
Biology I Lab
BIOL 141 Biology II Lab
Term: Spring
Credits: 1
Continued development of investigative techniques in biology and the skills required for the
analysis and presentation of scientiﬁc ﬁndings, with emphasis on topics at the level of organisms
and above./uni00A0 Biology 140 and 141L are linked co-requisites.
Degree Requirements
F7
Prerequisites
Biology I
Biology I Lab
BIOL 200 Evolution with Lab
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 4, 1
Evolution is the grand unifying idea of biology. This study of the evolutionary process will include
discussion of the genetic mechanisms of variation, natural selection, change in populations,
speciation, coevolution, hominid evolution and biogeography, as well as applications of
evolutionary biology to real-world problems. The history of evolutionary ideas from before Darwin
to the present will also be covered. Laboratories will involve original research design, data
analysis, discussion of a many types of literature and presentation of ideas in a variety of formats.
Prerequisites
Biology I
Biology I Lab
Biology II
Biology II Lab
BIOL 201 Mycology with Lab
Term: Spring
Credits: 4, 1
The study of life’s “ﬁfth kingdom”: the fungi. Even though they share an equal evolutionary
standing with plants and animals, to most people fungi are amongst the most mysterious and least
understood of nature’s inhabitants. Just what is a fungus anyway? Where do fungi live, and what
are they doing out there? This course will provide answers to questions like these, as well as
provide examples of the practical uses of fungi in industry and research and of the roles that some
of them play as agents of disease. Laboratory work includes methods for isolating and identifying
fungi from nature, methods of genetic analysis, and methods for producing commercial products
like tempeh and beer./uni00A0/uni00A0(Course normally oﬀered in alternate years; anticipated for 2017-2018.)
Prerequisites
Biology I
Biology I Lab
Biology II
Biology II Lab
BIOL 202 Vertebrate Life
Term: Spring
Credits: 4
A study of the diversity of vertebrates including past and present radiations. This course focuses
on the various and diverse adaptations in behavior, ecology, morphology and physiology that allow
vertebrates to successfully inhabit water, air and land. (Course normally oﬀered every two to three
years.)
Prerequisites
Biology II
Biology II Lab
BIOL 204 Animal Development with Lab
Term: Spring
Credits: 4, 1
How does a single fertilized egg cell give rise to a multicellular animal? Developmental biology is
the discipline that tries to answer this question. In this class, we will search for that answer both in
classical experiments and the most cutting edge modern research. Understanding embryonic
development is a stepping stone towards understanding the evolution of animal diversity,
adaptation of forms and functions, the onset of birth defects and cancer, and even the processes
that make us each unique. In lab we will examine these processes in sea urchins, planaria and
other animal models.
/uni00A0
Prerequisites
Biology I
Biology I Lab
Biology II
Biology II Lab
BIOL 207 Animal Behavior with Lab
Term: Fall
Credits: 4, 1
An evolutionary and ecological approach to questions of why and how animals behave as they do.
Emphasis is on how traits help individuals maximize the survival of genes within them. Laboratories
will involve quantitative data collection in both the laboratory and ﬁeld.
Biology 200 recommended. Math 111 or equivalent suggested.
Degree Requirements
F11
Prerequisites
Biology I
Biology I Lab
Biology II
Biology II Lab
BIOL 209 Embryology
Term: Spring
Credits: 4
A study of the reproductive processes leading to fertilization of an egg, and the morphological
changes that occur in animal embryonic development from fertilization to birth. This anatomically-
based course will focus on the development of the major organ systems and body plan of
vertebrates, including comparisons of developmental patterns among vertebrates and
understanding what happens when the patterns are disrupted to produce birth defects. Class
meetings will be predominantly lecture with some laboratory work. (Course normally oﬀered every
two to three years.)
Prerequisites
Biology I
Biology I Lab
Biology II
Biology II Lab
BIOL 212 Environmental Issues in Southern
Africa
Term: Spring
Credits: 4
An interdisciplinary examination of the environmental issues of a region of the world famous for its
captivating scenery, immense richness and dire scarcity of natural resources, and cultural diversity
of its people. Special attention will be devoted to the role of parks and community-based
conservation projects in achieving a balance between people's/uni00A0needs and wildlife conservation.
By itself, this course satisﬁes an upper-level requirement for the Biology major; when combined
with Biology 214, the two courses together satisfy a requirement for one upper-level course with
laboratory. (Course oﬀered pending student demand; anticipated in 2018-2019.)
Pre-requisites: Biology 130/131, Biology 140/141, or Biology 120 and Chemistry 120/125
BIOL 214 Environmental Field Study in Namibia
Term: Summer
Credits: 4
An in-country exploration of the major environmental issues of Namibia, one of the world's most
arid and most beautiful countries. Students will spend three weeks in the region, visiting diﬀerent
ecosystems, such as the Namib Desert, dry thornveld savannas, and the Kalahari sands. They will
meet with indigenous people, NGOs, and governmental oﬃcers involved in local environmental
issues. Elephant and cheetah tracking can be part of the educational experience during this ﬁeld
study trip. This course emphasizes critical thinking and interdisciplinary learning and is meant to
challenge students' world-view to enable them to increase their awareness and knowledge of our
global society. (Course oﬀered pending student demand; anticipated in 2018-2019.)
Prerequisites:
Biology 130/131 and Biology 140/141 or Biology 120 and Chemistry 120/125
/uni00A0
Degree Requirements
F11
BIOL 260 The Science of Climate Change
Term: Spring
Credits: 4
The Earth’s climate is a complex system with many components, including the atmosphere, ocean,
land, and the creatures that inhabit these spaces. This course will address the science behind
climate change, focusing on 1) the mechanisms that govern climate; and 2) how climate interfaces
with the biological world. Students will engage with both concepts and real climate data to explore
these two areas. Speciﬁc biological topics will include: species distribution, conservation biology,
agriculture, disease, and ocean acidiﬁcation. This upper-level course, when paired with BIOL 214,
counts as an upper-level with laboratory elective.
Prerequisites: Biology 130/131 and 140/141, or Biology/uni00A0120 and Chemistry 120/125
/uni00A0
BIOL 280 Microbial Methods in Ecology
Credits: 4
This course is oﬀered at the Semester in Environmental Science (SES) Program at the Marine
Biological Laboratory in Woods Hole, Massachusetts. Students accepted into the SES Program will
take this course.
The microbiology techniques commonly used to study microbes aﬀecting human health are often
ineﬀective for the study of microbes in natural ecosystems. Lectures in this course will present the
scientiﬁc rationale behind a number of methods used by microbial ecologists. In the laboratory,
students will work with the latest techniques to measure microbial biomass, activity, extracellular
enzymes, biogeochemistry and species diversity./uni00A0 These methods include epiﬂuorescence
microscopy, radioisotopic tracers for bacterial production, ﬂuorescent substrates, hydrogen sulﬁde
and methane production, and molecular probes for classes of bacteria. Students may use these
techniques in concurrent independent research projects./uni00A0 This course is an elective oﬀered to
students who enroll in the Semester in Environmental Science (SES) Program at the Marine
Biological Laboratory in Woods Hole, Massachusetts.
Students who participate in the SES Program may count ENVS 260 and ENVS 270 as two upper-
level courses with labs towards the Biology major (subject to the limit that no more than two
courses outside of the Rhodes Biology program may be applied to the major), but BIOL 280 will
count only as elective credits in Biology (this course/uni00A0may not count as one of the six upper-level
Biology courses required for the major).
Prerequisites
Biology I
Biology I Lab
Biology II
Biology II Lab
BIOL 301 Microbiology with Lab
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 4, 1
The study of microorganisms from the perspectives of molecular biology, metabolism, physiology,
genetics, evolution and ecology. Principal emphasis will be placed on prokaryotic microorganisms
(the bacteria and archaea) and the importance of their metabolic strategies and physiology in
deﬁning the roles that they play in nature including, though not limited to, the ability of pathogenic
microorganisms to survive in a host and cause disease. The laboratory emphasizes the
development of skills in isolation and characterization of bacteria.
Prerequisites
Biology I
Biology I Lab
Biology II
Biology II Lab
BIOL 302 Parasitology
Term: Spring
Credits: 4
Parasites are organisms that are dependent on another species for their reproductive success.
Many spend most or all of their lives in close association with one or more host organisms. This
course will examine the morphology, development, molecular and cellular biology, life cycles,
ecology, evolutionary adaptations, and host interactions of a variety of vertebrate and invertebrate
parasites. Parasites that interact with humans as a primary or secondary host will feature
prominently but all parasitic taxa will be represented.
/uni00A0
Prerequisites
Biology I
Biology I Lab
Biology II
Biology II Lab
BIOL 303 Genetics
Term: Fall
Credits: 4
The study of the transmission of genetic factors in humans and eukaryotic model systems. Principal
emphasis will be placed on the analysis of heredity, genes as functional units, and phenotypes
resulting from regulated gene expression. Students who already have credit for Biology 304/304L
may not earn credit for Biology 303./uni00A0(Course normally oﬀered every two to three years.)
Prerequisites
Biology I
Biology I Lab
Biology II
Biology II Lab
BIOL 304 Genetics with Lab
Term: Spring
Credits: 4, 1
The study of the transmission of genetic factors in humans and eukaryotic model systems. Principal
emphasis will be placed on the analysis of heredity, genes as functional units, and phenotypes
resulting from regulated gene expression. Laboratory exercises include experimental genetic
screens, genomic approaches and their analysis. Students who already have credit for Biology 303
may not earn credit for Biology 304/304L.
Prerequisites
Biology I
Biology I Lab
Biology II
Biology II Lab
BIOL 305 Population Genomics with Lab
Credits: 4, 1
Genetic diversity is what enables a population to respond to change. In a practical sense, human
health, control of infectious disease, conservation and the maintenance of our world food supply
are all impacted by genomic variation. Over the past two decades, as climate change and global
pandemics rise to challenge our genetic strength, technology has provided tools to explore our
genomes in ways previously unimagined. In Population Genomics we will bridge modern tools with
classical theory to explore our DNA not just as a sequence of bases, but as an everchanging 3-
dimensional puzzle to ﬁnd solutions for the medical and environmental challenges we face. In the
lab section we will learn the tools of genetical analysis and conduct experiments based on whole-
genome approaches.
/uni00A0
Prerequisites
Biology I
Biology I Lab
Biology II
Biology II Lab
BIOL 307 Cell Biology
Term: Fall
Credits: 4
An advanced treatment of the structure and function of eukaryotic cells. Major emphasis will be
placed upon the roles played by biological membranes in cell nutrition and energy transduction;
on processes of signal transduction; on the roles of the cytoskeleton in cell structure, motility, and
reproduction; on mechanisms that regulate the cell cycle and cell death; and on mechanisms that
regulate intracellular traﬃcking. Optional laboratory credit is available by taking BMB 310 (see
Biochemistry and Molecular Biology program under Interdisciplinary Study).
Prerequisites
Biology I
Biology I Lab
BIOL 311 Invertebrate Biology with Lab
Credits: 4, 1
A course that examines the diversity of invertebrates, which are the vast majority of all animals on
the planet, and how they can be useful proxies for understanding ecosystem processes. Topics will
include the morphology, physiology, reproduction and ecology of major invertebrate groups. The
course will also cover current issues in invertebrate conservation. Laboratories will emphasize
original experimental approaches, data analysis, discussion of literature and ﬁeld work to observe
and collect invertebrates.
Prerequisites
Biology I
Biology I Lab
Biology II
Biology II Lab
BIOL 315 Ecology with Lab
Term: Fall
Credits: 4, 1
A broad study of concepts in the science of ecology. This course stresses the biotic and abiotic
interactions that determine the distribution and abundance of organisms. The laboratory
component consists of both on-campus laboratory work and intensive ﬁeld experiences including
at least one overnight outing. Students with organismal and environmental interests desiring a ﬁeld
component are encouraged to participate. Occasional Saturday and weekend ﬁeld trips are
required.
Prerequisites: Biology 130/131, Biology 140/141 or Biology 120 and Chemistry 120/125
BIOL 316 Freshwater Ecology with Lab
Credits: 4, 1
Aquatic ecosystems range broadly in scale: from small stormwater ponds to the Great Lakes, and
from headwater streams to the Mississippi River. This course focuses on diﬀerent aspects of each
of those environments, with particular attention paid to the biology of freshwater systems, including
biodiversity, biogeochemistry, and food webs. We will cover carbon and nutrient cycling in streams
and lakes, relationships between watersheds and characteristics of inland waters, and the role of
environmental change in shaping physical, chemical, and biological traits of freshwater
ecosystems. Additionally, we will cover ecological interactions of organisms living in aquatic
environments and the role that humans have played in inﬂuencing how our aquatic ecosystems
behave. Laboratories will involve skill building in ﬁeld, lab, and computer settings, including study
design and implementation, ﬁeld sampling, organism identiﬁcation, data analysis, and mathematical
and ecosystem modeling. The course will also build skills in communication through presentations
and class discussions, as well as a continued focus on reading and interpreting peer-reviewed
literature.
/uni00A0
Prerequisites
Biology I
Biology I Lab
Biology II
Biology II Lab
BIOL 318 Entomology with Lab
Term: Spring
Credits: 4, 1
This course will include a survey of insect orders and will introduce students to their structure,
diversity, evolution, and ecology. Insects constitute a remarkably diverse and successful lineage of
animals that has persisted on Earth for hundreds of millions of years. Our evolution and survival are
truly interwoven with theirs since they directly aﬀect our health, food security, and economy. Their
ecologies are fascinating, they provide us with absolutely essential ecosystem services, and they
make incredibly useful models for understanding various biological processes. Labs will focus on
insect collection and identiﬁcation, with the end-goal of building an insect collection by the end of
the course. As such, students will spend considerable time in the ﬁeld observing and collecting
insects. Occasional weekend ﬁeld trips are required.
Prerequisites
Biology I
Biology I Lab
Biology II
Biology II Lab
BIOL 320 Conservation Biology with Lab
Term: Spring
Credits: 4, 1
An interdisciplinary examination of the science of conservation of biological diversity at gene,
population, species, and ecosystem levels./uni00A0Learning the theories and practice of conservation
biology and critically evaluating strategies adopted to prevent loss of biodiversity are the main
objectives of this course./uni00A0 Laboratories and ﬁeld work are designed to make the students familiar
with research methods and tools used by conservation biologists.
Prerequisites: Biology 130/131, Biology 140/141 or Biology 120 and Chemistry 120/125
BIOL 322 Plant Diversity & Evolution with Lab
Term: Spring
Credits: 4, 1
Plants have evolved a stunning diversity of forms and reproductive strategies, occupy some
incredibly challenging ecological niches, and form the basis of food chains and human economic
systems. This course surveys plant types emphasizing morphology, reproduction, ecology,
geography, and the evolution of major groups. This includes examining water relations,
photosynthesis, respiration, and plant-soil and plant-animal interactions that determine the
relationships between plants and their physical and biological environments. This course will also
explore the history of plant use in society, including the evolving relationships between humans
and plants as food, medicine, fuel, ﬁbers, and dyes. Laboratories will involve original research
design, data analysis, discussion of literature, presentation of ideas in a variety of formats, and
ﬁeld-oriented components stressing plant identiﬁcation and ecology.
Prerequisites
Biology I
Biology I Lab
Biology II
Biology II Lab
BIOL 325 Molecular Biology with Lab
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits:  4, 1
A study of the structure and function of genes at the molecular level. Topics include the synthesis
of nucleic acids and proteins and the mechanisms of gene expression and control in prokaryotes
and eukaryotes. An emphasis will be placed on the design, analysis, and interpretation of classic
and contemporary experiments. The laboratory component will teach the student how to conduct
and interpret experiments in molecular biology such as isolation of DNA, gel electrophoresis,
recombinant DNA cloning, and DNA sequencing within the context of speciﬁc projects.
Prerequisites
Biology I
Biology I Lab
BIOL 330 Virology/Immunology
Term: Fall
Credits:  4
A course examining the fundamental facts and concepts of the ﬁelds of both Virology and
Immunology. The Virology component, approximately one quarter of the course, introduces the
key features of viral structure, function, pathogenesis and epidemiology in the context of example
viruses that cause signiﬁcant human disease. The Immunology component of this course examines
the components of the vertebrate immune system and how they interact to defend the organism
against pathogens, how a dysfunctional immune system can cause disease, and how knowledge
of the immune system can be applied in areas such as transplant medicine and the
immunotherapy of cancer./uni00A0
Prerequisites
Biology I
Biology I Lab
Biology II
Biology II Lab
BIOL 340 Animal Physiology with Lab
Term: Spring
Credits: 4, 1
A study of the various systems of animal physiology (e.g., muscular, nervous, endocrine, cardiac,
digestive, respiratory, renal). These themes will be covered in an integrative manner that includes
analysis at molecular, cellular, systems, and organismal levels. An emphasis will be placed on the
maintenance of homeostasis. Furthermore, a comparative approach will be taken to emphasize not
only how the human body functions, but also how various animals have evolved similar
physiological endpoints that can be compared in their structure and functional eﬃcacy to the
human body. Such an approach will allow an understanding of how physiology functions, what are
its constraints and specializations, what aspects of physiology are integral to sustaining life, etc.
Laboratory investigations will include studies of vertebrate muscle physiology and biochemistry
and regulation of vertebrate cardiac activity, blood pressure and respiration. Laboratory
experiments will involve the careful and humane use of live vertebrates as research models.
Laboratories are scheduled for 4 to 5 hours each week.
Prerequisites
Biology I
Biology I Lab
Biology II
Biology II Lab
BIOL 345 Ornithology with Lab
Term: Spring
Credits: 4, 1
A ﬁeld-based course examining how the study of birds has informed our understanding of the
natural world. Topics include the ecology, conservation, behavior, biogeography, and evolution of
birds. Labs provide hands-on experience with avian research methods, focusing especially on
survey techniques and identiﬁcation of local species. A strong emphasis is placed on experiencing
local avifauna in their natural habitats through ﬁeld trips, and students will spend considerable time
in the ﬁeld observing the natural history of birds. Occasional Saturday and weekend ﬁeld trips are
required. (Course normally oﬀered every two to three years.)
Prerequisites: Biology 130/131, Biology 140/141 or Biology 120 and Chemistry 120/125
BIOL 348 Wildlife Biology
Term: Fall
Credits: 4, 1
This discussion-based course emphasizes the synthesis and integration of ecological principles to
address complex issues in wildlife conservation and management. Ecological topics include
estimating population size, habitat management, hunting, population viability analysis, wildlife
interactions, human/wildlife conﬂict, and endangered species management. Labs include
substantial time in the ﬁeld learning wildlife techniques coupled with computational approaches to
synthesize data.
/uni00A0
Pre-Requisites: BIOL 130/131 and BIOL 140/141, or BIOL 120 and CHEM 120
/uni00A0
BIOL 350 Comparative Vertebrate Morphology
with Lab
Term: Fall
Credits: 4, 1
A comparative approach to the study of vertebrate anatomy, emphasizing evolution, development,
and functional signiﬁcance. This course focuses on understanding human anatomy through the
examination of morphological patterns shared by vertebrates. Laboratories will involve dissection
of representative vertebrates, with a focus on mammals. Two lecture sessions and not less than 4
hours of laboratory/practicum per week.
Prerequisites
Biology II
Biology II Lab
BIOL 360 Histology with Lab
Term: Fall
Credits: 4, 1
A study of the anatomy and physiology of animal cells, tissues and organs at the microscopic level.
This course emphasizes the relationship between microscopic form and function starting with a
brief overview of cells and progressing through the diﬀerent mammalian organ systems.
Laboratory activities will help students develop skill with microscopic identiﬁcation and how to
apply knowledge of histological form and function to interpret histopathological changes in
diseased tissues.
Prerequisites
Biology I
Biology I Lab
Biology II
Biology II Lab
BIOL 365 Advanced Topics in Biology
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 4, or 4, 1
Introduction to selected advanced biology topics. Topics vary with instructor. May be repeated for
credit when topics diﬀer. Course oﬀering may or may not have a laboratory credit associated with
the class. Not oﬀered every year. Course may include the equivalent of 3 hours of laboratory each
week.
(Biology 120 and Chemistry 120 may serve as prerequisites for some oﬀerings when
used to satisfy Environmental Science major requirements. Consult the professor oﬀering the
course.)
Prerequisites
Biology I
Biology I Lab
Biology II
Biology II Lab
BIOL 375 Neuroendocrinology with Lab
Term: Fall
Credits: 4, 1
An exploration of reciprocal interactions between the nervous and endocrine systems: how the
brain regulates endocrine homeostasis, and how developmental and daily/seasonal changes in
hormone levels bring about changes in neural structure and function. These themes will be
covered in an integrative manner that includes analysis at molecular, cellular, systems, and
organismal levels. Topics will include hormone and receptor structure-function relationships,
pharmacology, neuroendocrine techniques, neuroendocrine systems, gonadal hormones and sex
diﬀerences during development and adulthood, the neuroendocrine regulation of social behaviors,
and the hippocampal-hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal stress axis. Laboratory experiments will
involve the careful and humane use of vertebrates as research models. Laboratory topics will
include behavioral assays, neuroanatomy, hormone analyses, brain tissue histology, brain tissue
immunohistochemistry, and microscopy./uni00A0 Laboratories are scheduled for 4 hours each week.
Prerequisites
Biology I
Biology I Lab
Biology II
Biology II Lab
BIOL 376 Molecular and Cellular Neuroscience
with Lab
Term: Spring
Credits: 4, 1
An exploration of the unique cell biology and physiology of neurons. Students will learn how
neurons grow and maintain highly specialized structures such as dendrites and axons, and then
use them to send, receive, and process information./uni00A0 Course topics will include the cortical
histogenesis, the neuronal cytoskeleton and axonal transport, passive cable theory, action
potential generation and propagation, synaptic transmission, dendritic integration, and synaptic
plasticity. The laboratory component of this course will reinforce lecture topics through a
combination of electronic modeling, compartmental modeling using morphologically realistic
neuronal models, and experimentation using acute brain slice preparations./uni00A0 Laboratory topics
include electrical models of the neuronal membrane and dendrites, compartmental modeling using
morphologically realistic model neurons, the resting membrane potential, the population spike and
I/O curves, excitatory synaptic transmission (the ﬁeld EPSP), inhibitory synaptic transmission, and
synaptic plasticity.
Prerequisites
Biology I
Biology I Lab
Biology II
Biology II Lab
BIOL 377 Developmental Neuroscience with Lab
Credits: 4, 1
This course will explore how billions of neurons in our body are generated from a few specialized
cells during embryonic development. Topics that will be covered in this class will include signals
that regulate how cells are instructed to acquire a neural identity, how cells switch over from a
progenitor to a fully diﬀerentiated neuron and the impact this may have on regulation of brain size
with a special emphasis on exploring the mechanistic basis of human neocortex expansion, how
neurons form functional neuronal circuits for proper function and regulation of behavior, and
reorganization of these neuronal circuits during post-natal development. The importance of these
fundamental processes in neuronal development will be highlighted through discussions of
neurodevelopmental disorders such as neural tube defects that aﬀect 3000 pregnancies each
year in the US, lissencephaly, polymicrogyria among others. There will also be a brief section on
use of stem cells and three-dimensional stem cell organoid approaches that are being used to
answer previously unexplored questions of human nervous system development. Laboratory
experiments will involve the use of vertebrate embryos in a humane manner to illustrate many of
the fundamental concepts taught during lectures. Speciﬁc skills students can hope to acquire in
the laboratory will be ﬁne dissection skills, immunoﬂuorescence, and microscopy, gross
morphological analysis of embryos upon drug treatments known to aﬀect neuronal development
and ﬁnally, quantitative approaches for assessment of experimental manipulations that aﬀect
neuronal fate determination and neural circuit formation.
Prerequisites
Biology I
Biology I Lab
Biology II
Biology II Lab
BIOL 380 Topics in Biomedical Science
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 4
A topical exploration of the connection between basic biomedical science and its clinical
signiﬁcance. Four topics are covered during the semester. Each topic is taught by a St. Jude
Children’s Research Hospital post-doctoral fellow; a Rhodes faculty member directs the course.
Each topic consists of a presentation of pertinent background information on basic scientiﬁc
principles, reading and discussion of secondary and primary literature within the research area of
the post-doctoral fellow, and discussion of potential clinical signiﬁcance of the research.
Prerequisites
Biology I
Biology I Lab
Biology II
Biology II Lab
BIOL 451 Research in Biology
Term: Fall
Credits:  1-4
Qualiﬁed students may conduct original laboratory or ﬁeld research in biology. A student may use
four credits of research or a combination of two credits from BMB 310 combined with research
credit to total four credits to satisfy one of the upper level requirements in Biology. Students may
earn a maximum of four credits of BIOL 451 plus 452. Interested students should consult the
appropriate Biology faculty member. At least three hours per week per credit, weekly conferences
with faculty sponsor, written report at the end of the semester.
BIOL 452 Research in Biology
Term: Spring
Credits:  1-4
Qualiﬁed students may conduct original laboratory or ﬁeld research in biology. A student may use
four credits of research or a combination of two credits from BMB 310 combined with research
credit to total four credits to satisfy one of the upper level requirements in Biology. Students may
earn a maximum of four credits of BIOL 451 plus 452. Interested students should consult the
appropriate Biology faculty member. At least three hours per week per credit, weekly conferences
with faculty sponsor, written report at the end of the semester.
BIOL 453 Advanced Research in Biology
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits:  1-4
Qualiﬁed students may continue original laboratory or ﬁeld research in biology past the four credits
gained in BIOL 451 and 452. BIOL 453 credits may not be used to satisfy upper level course
requirements. Interested students should consult the appropriate Biology faculty member. At least
three hours per week per credit, weekly conferences with faculty sponsor, written report at the end
of the semester.
BIOL 460 Internship in Biology
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 3-4
The Internship Program is designed to introduce students to practical applications of their
academic work. Students may work oﬀ campus under professional supervision in ﬁelds related to
the biological sciences, such as health care, laboratory diagnosis, forensics, environmental
protection, agriculture. Students will be required to integrate academic and work experiences in a
written report due at the end of the internship. No more than 4 credits per semester for no more
than two semesters; at least three hours involvement per week per credit. Pass/Fail credit only.
Biology 460 does not satisfy an upper level Biology course requirement for the major.
Degree Requirements
F11
BIOL 461 Internship in Biology
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 1-2
Similar to BIOL 460, but does not require a written report and does not fulﬁll the F11 degree
requirement.
BIOL 485 Senior Seminar
Term: Spring
Credits: 4
All Biology majors are required to enroll in Senior Seminar during one semester of their senior
year. Senior Seminar is intended to be a broad, integrative experience in Biology, requiring both
oral and written work.
BIOL 486 Senior Seminar
Term: Spring
Credits: 4
All Biology majors are required to enroll in Senior Seminar during one semester of their senior
year. Senior Seminar is intended to be a broad, integrative experience in Biology, requiring both
oral and written work.
BIOL 495 Honors Tutorial
Term: Fall
Credits: 4-6
Open to candidates for Honors in Biology. Includes supervised honors research in a biological
ﬁeld of study. General information may be found in the Catalogue under the Honors Program
(http://catalog.rhodes.edu/catalog/opportunities-individualized-study). Contact the Department
Chair for additional information related speciﬁcally to Honors in Biology./uni00A0
BIOL 496 Honors Tutorial
Term: Spring
Credits: 4-6
Open to candidates for Honors in Biology. Includes supervised honors research in a biological
ﬁeld of study. General information may be found in the Catalogue under the Honors Program
(http://catalog.rhodes.edu/catalog/opportunities-individualized-study). Contact the Department
Chair for additional information related speciﬁcally to Honors in Biology./uni00A0
BMB 310 Methods in Biochemistry and Cell
Biology
Term: Fall
Credits: 4
This course provides instruction in the theory and application of a variety of research techniques
dealing with the structure and function of proteins in biological systems. Students will gain practical
laboratory experience in procedures including chromatographic separation of proteins,
spectrophotometric protein assays, kinetic characterization of enzymes, polyacrylamide gel
electrophoresis, antibody production, enzyme-linked immunosorbent assays (ELISA),
immunoblotting, cell culture, and ﬂuorescence microscopy. Additional experience will be gained in
the practical application of computer-based bioinformatics tools for characterizing proteins based
on their predicted amino acid sequences, as well as in protein identiﬁcation through mass-
spectrometry./uni00A0
This course can count as laboratory credit to accompany Biology 307 or Chemistry 315 or both.
One hour of lecture and three hours of laboratory per week plus independent work.
Prerequisites
Foundations of Chemistry
First Year Chemistry Laboratory
Organic Chemistry I
Biology I
Biology I Lab
Biology II
Biology II Lab
BMB 380 Topics in Biomedical Sciences
Term: Spring
Credits:  4
A topical exploration of the connection between basic biomedical science and its clinical
signiﬁcance. Four topics are covered during the semester. Each topic is taught by a St. Jude
Children’s Research Hospital post-doctoral fellow; a Rhodes faculty member directs the course.
Each topic consists of a presentation of pertinent background information on basic scientiﬁc
principles, reading and discussion of secondary and primary literature within the research area of
the post-doctoral fellow, and discussion of potential clinical signiﬁcance of the research.
Prerequisites
Biology II Lab
BMB 451 Research in Biochemistry and
Molecular Biology
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits:  1-4
Qualiﬁed students may conduct original laboratory research in biochemistry and molecular biology.
A student may use four credit hours
of research to satisfy one of the upper level requirements in Biochemistry and Molecular Biology.
Interested students should consult a
Biochemistry and Molecular Biology committee member. Prerequisites: the permission of a
sponsoring faculty member and the
Biochemistry and Molecular Biology committee. At least three hours of lab work per week per
credit, weekly conferences with faculty
sponsor, written report at the end of the semester.
BMB 452 Research in Biochemistry and
Molecular Biology
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 1-4
Qualiﬁed students may conduct original laboratory research in biochemistry and molecular biology.
A student may use four credit hours
of research to satisfy one of the upper level requirements in Biochemistry and Molecular Biology.
Interested students should consult a
Biochemistry and Molecular Biology committee member. Prerequisites: the permission of a
sponsoring faculty member and the
Biochemistry and Molecular Biology committee. At least three hours of lab work per week per
credit, weekly conferences with faculty
sponsor, written report at the end of the semester.
BMB 460 Internship
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 1-4
The Internship Program is designed to introduce students to practical applications of their
academic work. Students may work oﬀ
campus under professional supervision in ﬁelds related to the biochemical and molecular
biological sciences, such as in bioinformatics
and biotechnology. Students will be required to integrate academic and work experiences in an
oral and/or written report at the end of the
internship. No more than 4 credits per semester for no more than two semesters. Pass/Fail credit
only. This course does not satisfy an
upper level course requirement for the major.
BMB 485 Senior Seminar
Term: Spring
Credits: 4
All Biochemistry and Molecular Biology majors are required to enroll in Senior Seminar during one
semester of their senior year. Senior
Seminar is intended to be a broad, integrative experience in Biochemistry and Molecular Biology,
requiring both oral and written work.
BMB 486 Senior Seminar
Term: Spring
Credits:  4
All Biochemistry and Molecular Biology majors are required to enroll in Senior Seminar during one
semester of their senior year. Senior
Seminar is intended to be a broad, integrative experience in Biochemistry and Molecular Biology,
requiring both oral and written work.
BMB 495 Honors Tutorial
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits:  4-8
Open to candidates for honors in Biochemistry and Molecular Biology. Includes supervised honors
research and instruction in an
appropriate ﬁeld of study. Prerequisites: Permission of the Biochemistry and Molecular Biology
Committee and Minimum GPA of 3.5.
BMB 496 Honors Tutorial
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits:  4-8
Open to candidates for honors in Biochemistry and Molecular Biology. Includes supervised honors
research and instruction in an
appropriate ﬁeld of study. Prerequisites: Permission of the Biochemistry and Molecular Biology
Committee and Minimum GPA of 3.5.
BUS 125 Introduction to Entrepreneurship
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits:  2
This course introduces students of diverse majors to an alternative future where they may achieve
ﬁnancial independence and security for themselves while also contributing to the economic well-
being of the community. Students will explore start-up and small business issues and develop
some entrepreneurial skills.
BUS 126 Application of Entrepreneurship
Term: Spring
Credits:  2
This course works with highly motivated students who wish to truly build a new business venture
(startup or small business) and launch it either while in college or just after graduation. The course
is open to students of diverse majors and provides practical and tactical start-up and small
business support to enable students to develop their businesses, their entrepreneurial skills, and
seek out resources needed to launch their new venture. There is an expectation that students in
the class will apply for the Annual Rhodes College Business Plan Competition held in the spring in
coordination with the Rhodes Symposium.
BUS 200 Taxation for Working Poor
Credits:  2
Students will explore the objectives and consequences of various aspects of the U.S. federal tax
system in relation to the working poor. Topics covered will include the Earned Income Tax Credit,
progressive and regressive taxes, and income redistribution as the result of tax provisions. In
addition, students will study common misperceptions of those living in poverty. The course will
consist of classroom instruction, tax preparation training, completion of a tax certiﬁcation test, and
volunteer tax preparation at a community-based site. This course is open to both business and
non-business majors and assumes no prior knowledge of accounting or tax.
Degree Requirements
F11
BUS 241 Financial Accounting
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits:  4
This course introduces students to ﬁnancial accounting concepts that are used to communicate
ﬁnancial information of business organizations to internal and external parties. The study of
ﬁnancial accounting provides a strong foundation for future courses in business and ﬁnance. The
student is introduced to generally accepted accounting principles, the recording of ﬁnancial
transactions, and the preparation and interpretation of ﬁnancial statements.
BUS 243 Managerial Accounting
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 4
This course emphasizes cost accounting techniques and applications related to managerial
planning, control, and decision-making. Speciﬁc topics include the measurement of production
costs, control of operating costs, breakeven analysis, incremental decision-making, creation of
static and ﬂexible budgets, and analysis of cost variances.
/uni00A0
Prerequisites
Financial Accounting
BUS 246 Law of Basic Commercial Transactions
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 4
Introduction to legal concepts in those areas of the law essential to commercial transactions,
including creation and performance of contracts for the sale of goods and other property,
negotiable instruments, real and personal property, leases, and wills and estates. The course will
be taught largely utilizing the case method and problem approach, with an emphasis on how legal
concepts are applied to speciﬁc factual situations.
BUS 265 Topics in Business
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 1-4
Content of the course varies with instructor. The course may be repeated for credit as long as
topics covered are diﬀerent.
Prerequisites
Introduction to Economics
BUS 283 Introduction to International Business
Cases
Term: Maymester
Credits: 4
Course is a combination of lectures, case discussion, and site visits. Lectures by Rhodes and
University of Antwerp faculty as well as European Union oﬃcials on international business
including strategy, ﬁnance, marketing and management within the context of the European Union
will form the basis for class discussion of business cases. Following work on business cases,
students will visit business sites for discussion of the businesses’ strategies and performances with
ﬁrm oﬃcials. The course is oﬀered in Antwerp, Belgium. Cases
and site visits will vary from year to year. Business 283 is not open to students who have
completed any prerequisites for Business 483.
By application and acceptance to the program only. (Same as International Studies 283.)
Degree Requirements
F11
BUS 284 Social Impact of Business in South
Africa
Term: Maymester
Credits: 4
This Maymester course will include an exploration of the impacts (both positive and negative) that
for-proﬁt companies can have on a developing country./uni00A0 Speciﬁcally, students will explore the
lingering eﬀects of Apartheid regimes on businesses and culture in two speciﬁc cities in South
Africa./uni00A0 They will examine diversity and inclusion in the workplace, as well as how businesses are
striving to aﬀect the vast divide between the rich and the poor within the country./uni00A0 Students will
meet with social entrepreneurs and corporate leaders in Johannesburg and Cape Town and will
discuss the positive impact that socially responsible businesses have made to date, what they are
still hoping to accomplish and how the government has attempted to regulate corporate social
responsibility./uni00A0 In addition, students will grapple with the negative outcomes of putting societal
issues into the hands of corporate leaders to solve (negatives both for the corporations and for the
community.)
Degree Requirements
F11
BUS 341 Intermediate Accounting I
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 4
This course is designed to help students develop the skills and knowledge to properly prepare
general-purpose ﬁnancial statements and to develop an understanding of the purpose, usefulness,
and limitations of ﬁnancial accounting information. Topics include, but are not limited to, accounting
research, accrual accounting, revenue recognition, cash presentation, net receivables, inventory
valuation, property and equipment, goodwill impairment, investments, and footnote disclosures.
/uni00A0
Prerequisites
Financial Accounting
Introduction to Economics
Managerial Accounting
BUS 342 Intermediate Accounting II
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 4
This course is a continuation of BUS 341: Intermediate Accounting I. It is designed to help students
develop the skills and knowledge to properly prepare general-purpose ﬁnancial statements and to
develop an understanding of the purpose, usefulness, and limitations of ﬁnancial accounting
information. Topics include, but are not limited to, investments, contingencies, debt, deferred taxes,
pensions, equity, earnings per share, error corrections and the statement of cash ﬂows.
Prerequisites
Intermediate Accounting I
BUS 345 Federal Income Tax
Term: Fall
Credits: 4
This course introduces students to the principles of taxation of individuals. Speciﬁc topics include
the calculation of income, deductions, exemptions, tax credits, capital gains and losses,
depreciation, employee expenses, and gains and losses from property transactions. Course
coverage includes the theory and purpose of taxation, the inﬂuence of taxes on taxpayer behavior,
and discussion of recent changes to the tax laws and tax system.
/uni00A0
Prerequisites
Financial Accounting
Introduction to Economics
BUS 351 Corporate Financial Management
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 4
The main objectives of the ﬁnancial manager are to plan for, acquire, and use funds in an eﬃcient
manner in order to maximize the value of the ﬁrm. This course introduces ﬁnancial planning, the
discounted cash ﬂow model, modern portfolio theory, and the capital asset pricing model. Major
topics covered include ﬁnancial analysis, decision-making under uncertainty, cost of capital,
company valuation techniques, and history of capital markets. Students are introduced to ﬁnancial
analysis and modeling using Microsoft excel, real-world case studies, and contemporary ﬁnancial
issues.
Prerequisites: BUS 241/uni00A0Financial Accounting, ECON 100 Introduction to Economics
Prerequisite or Corequisite: BUS 243 Cost Accounting, and ECON 290 Statistical Analysis for
Economics and Business or MATH 211 Applied Statistics for the Formal & Natural Sciences
BUS 361 Management of Organizations
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 4
Focuses on evidence-based management to separate useful from useless management practices.
Initially, the course Introduces scientiﬁc principles as an analytic framework for evaluating
management theories about people at work, especially theories about work motivation, leadership
and job design. Later, the course focus shifts to the topic of organizational design and the
management of ﬁrms in an ever-changing business and competitive environment. This subject
identiﬁes structures and processes for managing within the ever-changing environments
organizations face. Students acquire experiences in applying scientiﬁc analyses to real-world
situations by analyzing cases and through research projects.
/uni00A0
Prerequisite/uni00A0/uni00A0ECON 100 Intro to Economics
Prerequisite or Corequisite: ECON 290 Statistical Analysis for Economics and Business, or MATH
211 Applied Statistics for the Formal & Natural Sciences
Prerequisites
Introduction to Economics
BUS 371 Marketing Management
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits:  4
An introduction to the study of marketing as a value adding exchange process. The theoretical
underpinnings of how businesses add value to consumers and collaborators is examined. Topics
covered include the marketing process, buyers and markets, identifying market opportunities and
satisfying them through managing pricing, products, services, communications and channels.
Prerequisites: ECON 100 Intro to Economics
Prerequisite/Corequisite: ECON 290 Statistical Analysis for Economics and Business OR MATH
211Applied Statistics for the Formal & Natural Sciences, BUS 243 Cost Accounting
BUS 448 Auditing
Term: Spring
Credits:  4
Conceptual approach to auditing process, procedures, communications and professional
environment which includes auditing standards, legal responsibilities and professional ethics.
Prerequisite or Corequisite: BUS 342 Intermediate Accounting Theory II
BUS 452 Cases in Managerial Finance
Term: Fall
Credits:  4
Application of ﬁnancial theories introduced in Financial Management (Business 351) to actual
business problems using quantitative and qualitative techniques. Presented with debatable
alternatives, students analyze, choose, and defend their ideas and a course of action. Financial
theories are reexamined in conjunction with their related cases. Case topics include ﬁnancing
current operations, long-term ﬁnancing, investment decisions, signaling with dividend and debt
policies, and mergers and acquisitions. Contemporary corporate ﬁnancial issues are examined, as
well as ﬁnancial ethics. Extensive creation of computerized ﬁnancial spreadsheets. Students are
organized into teams for case preparation.
/uni00A0
Prerequisites
Corporate Financial Management
BUS 454 International Financial
Management/Financial Analytics
Term: Spring
Credits: 4
Introduction to the environment of international ﬁnancial management and ﬁnancial analytics. The
course includes the balance of payments, foreign exchange markets, parity conditions in the
foreign exchange market, derivatives, selected investment topics, and ﬁnancial analytics.
Presentation of stock valuations, mergers and acquisitions and investment analysis, using
discounted cash ﬂow analysis and modern portfolio theory. Students are also exposed to options
and forward contracts, which are important hedging securities. Introduction to ﬁnancial analytics
and multivariate statistical models. Case studies are included and students are organized into
teams.
Prerequisites
Corporate Financial Management
BUS 460 Internship/Professional Development
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 3 or 4
Open only to Business majors, the internship program provides an experiential approach to the
learning process and aﬀords students the opportunity to work in both business and nonproﬁt
organizations for academic credit. Internship placements are designed to complement learning
goals and career plans by allowing the student to apply theoretical principles learned in the
traditional classroom. Placements are arranged by the Director of Career Services and work
schedules are arranged by the student and the on-site supervisor. Typically students work on
speciﬁc projects related to their career interests and compatible with the goals and interests of the
sponsoring organization. A major focus of the course is teaching students better interview skills
and how to improve their written and verbal communication techniques all within a context of the
student becoming more professional as he/she approaches obtaining a job, and how better to
conduct themselves on the job. Internships are available to junior and senior Business majors.
Arrangements for internships are made the semester prior to the actual experience. No more than
8 internship credits may be allowed to count toward the credits required for graduation.
Prerequisites: BUS 341 Intermediate Accounting Theory I or BUS 351 Corporate Financial
Management, or BUS 361 Management of Organizations, or BUS 371 Marketing Management.
Degree Requirements
F11
BUS 461 Internship
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 1-2
This internship course provides an experiential approach to the learning process and aﬀords
Business majors the opportunity to work in both business and nonproﬁt organizations for academic
credit. Students are encouraged to explore areas of possible career interest through internships.
Students must have the approval of and coordinate with a designated Professor in the Department
of Business on an internship that exposes the student to meaningful aspects of a career in
business. The Career Services Oﬃce will also coordinate the internship choice. There are
requirements for both the sponsoring organization and for the student. The student must submit a
resume, an application, have an interview arranged an interview with the on-site supervisor, and
prepare an essay summarizing the experience, all as directed by the supervising Professor. This
internship program is limited to Business majors and is available only for non-paid internships.
Course may be repeated for credit, but no more than eight credits may be counted toward
graduation. Grades will be assigned on a pass/fail basis.
Prerequisites
Internship/Professional Development
BUS 463 International Management
Term: Fall
Credits: 4
Explores the application of management models to international business decisions in the areas of
work design, organizational structure,
strategic planning and human resource/personnel management. The focus is on the usefulness of
contemporary models across diverse
cultural settings as indicated by recent empirical research.
Prerequisites
Management of Organizations
BUS 465 Advanced Topics in Business
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 2 or 4
Content of course varies with instructor. The course may be repeated as long as topics covered
are diﬀerent.
BUS 466 Personnel and Human Resource
Management
Term: Spring
Credits: 4
An introduction to the functions of personnel/human resource management. Topics covered
include human resource planning, training and development, wage and salary administration,
selection instrument validation, employee performance evaluation, and employee relations.
Special attention is given to the use of information systems for managing personnel functions. A
computer/library project that focuses on the relationship between work attitudes and work
behavior is required.
/uni00A0
/uni00A0
Prerequisites
Management of Organizations
Statistical Analysis for Economics and Business
BUS 467 Diversity and Inclusion in the
Workplace
Term: Spring
Credits: 4
An exploration of how organizations can create a more inclusive corporate climate, which will allow
them to learn from and enhance the potential of employees from all backgrounds. Discussions and
assignments will examine research on and practical solutions for management of global and
diverse workforces. The course will begin with research on the development of personal
stereotypes as well as systemic discrimination in society, and will progress into speciﬁc human
resources policies and decisions aﬀecting employees at various stages of their careers. The
course will end with an examination of organizational cultures and the development of inclusive
workplaces. (Course oﬀered in alternate years.)
Prerequisites
Management of Organizations
BUS 470 Summer Internship Abroad
Term: Summer
Credits: 1
The Department of Business summer international internship program oﬀers students the
opportunity to spend time abroad while working in a foreign country. All internship projects must
be approved by the department and by Career Services. Scholarships are awarded on a
competitive basis. Pass-fail only.
BUS 472 Marketing Analytics
Term: Fall
Credits: 4
This course focuses on the use of statistics and analytics for decision-making. While foundational
statistical concepts will be reviewed, the course will cover marketing applications of statistical
(mostly multivariate) methods and models. The class will use appropriate software (statistical)
packages.
Prerequisites: ECON 290 Statistical Analysis for Economics and Business OR MATH 211 Applied
Statistics for the Formal and Natural Sciences OR PSYCH 211 Statistical Methods
BUS 473 International Marketing
Term: Spring
Credits: 4
An introduction to the global marketing environment, with an examination of how international
business variables aﬀect the marketing
process. Objectives include understanding the diﬀerences between domestic and international
marketing, providing a framework for
analyzing major risks and opportunities in foreign markets, and developing techniques for
preparing and implementing strategic
marketing plans through the use of case studies.
Prerequisites
Marketing Management
BUS 474 Services Marketing
Term: Fall
Credits: 4
Services Marketing is the management of customer experiences. Hospitals, executive training
ﬁrms, movie theaters, universities, law ﬁrms, non-proﬁt agencies, insurance agencies, restaurants,
ad agencies, hotels, recruiting ﬁrms, etc. (i.e., both consumer and business-to-business ﬁrms) are
examples of service businesses. However, all businesses have some component of service to
them. The main objective of the course is to understand the nature of services and discuss ways in
which services can streamline operations and improve productivity and proﬁtability through
examination of the customer service experience and establishing the relationship between
customer value and sustainable competitive advantage. There will be case assignments and
presentations to enhance in-class learning experience./uni00A0
/uni00A0
Prerequisites
Marketing Management
BUS 481 Business Ethics and Social
Responsibility
Term: Fall
Credits: 4
An exploration of the ethical and social issues facing business leaders today. Students will gain a
basic understanding of philosophical, ethical theories and begin to apply them to a variety of
business cases and ethical dilemmas, using critical thinking skills and reputable research to
examine issues from multiple perspectives. Students will learn how to recognize ethical dilemmas,
examine the consequences of various decisions, and be able to develop and defend arguments
for the business decisions that they make. Juniors and Seniors only.
/uni00A0
BUS 483 Advanced International Business
Cases
Term: Maymester
Credits: 4
The course is a combination of lectures, case analyses, and site visits. Lectures by Rhodes and
University of Antwerp faculty as well as European Union oﬃcials on international business
including strategy, ﬁnance, marketing and management within the context of the European Union
will form the basis for written case analyses and oral presentations. Following case completion,
students will visit business sites for discussion of the businesses’ strategies and performances with
ﬁrm oﬃcials. Students enrolled in this course will be required to complete detailed and
sophisticated case analyses drawing upon prerequisite course work as well as course lectures.
The course is oﬀered in Antwerp, Belgium. Cases and site visits will vary from year to year. BUS
483 may be used as one of the two required electives for a business or economics/business
major. Open only by application and acceptance to the program.
Prerequisite: BUS 351 or BUS 361 or BUS 371
Degree Requirements
F11
BUS 484 Social Impact of Business in South
Africa
Term: Maymester
Credits: 4
This Maymester course will include an exploration of the impacts (both positive and negative) that
for-proﬁt companies can have on a developing country./uni00A0 Speciﬁcally, students will explore the
lingering eﬀects of Apartheid regimes on businesses and culture in two speciﬁc cities in South
Africa./uni00A0 They will examine diversity and inclusion in the workplace, as well as how businesses are
striving to aﬀect the vast divide between the rich and the poor within the country./uni00A0 Students will
meet with social entrepreneurs and corporate leaders in Johannesburg and Cape Town and will
discuss the positive impact that socially responsible businesses have made to date, what they are
still hoping to accomplish and how the government has attempted to regulate corporate social
responsibility./uni00A0 In addition, students will grapple with the negative outcomes of putting societal
issues into the hands of corporate leaders to solve (negatives both for the corporations and for the
community.)
Prerequisite: BUS 351 or BUS 361 or BUS 371
Degree Requirements
F11
BUS 486 Senior Seminar in Business
Term: Spring
Credits: 2, or 4 by permission of Department Chair
A study of the theory and practice of setting and administering business policy, this course
integrates the student’s previous study of economics and business. Emphasis is on appraising a
company’s performance and strategy considering general social and economic conditions, as well
as the internal conditions of the ﬁrm; developing objectives, policies and plans; and developing,
guiding, and maintaining an administrative organization to carry out the plans and meet the
objectives. Pedagogy includes computerized case studies in business and team teaching.
Students are organized into teams for case preparation and presentation, and will be required to
present their analyses orally and in writing and to respond to analyses of other students.
/uni00A0
Prerequisites: Senior Status; Corporate Financial Management, Management of Organizations,
Marketing Management, Completion of at least two of the upper level business electives from two
diﬀerent areas as required for a major in Business, or permission of the Department Chair.
BUS 545 Federal Income Tax
Term: Fall
Credits: 4
Same course as BUS 345 with additional requirements for graduate credit
This course introduces students to the principles of taxation of individuals. Speciﬁc topics include
the calculation of income, deductions, exemptions, tax credits, capital gains and losses,
depreciation, employee expenses, and gains and losses from property transactions. Course
coverage includes the theory and purpose of taxation, the inﬂuence of taxes on taxpayer behavior,
and discussion of recent changes to the tax laws and tax system.
Prerequisites: Graduate Student Only
BUS 548 Auditing
Term: Spring
Credits: 4
Conceptual approach to auditing process, procedures, communications and professional
environment which includes auditing standards, legal responsibilities and professional ethics.
/uni00A0
BUS 552 Cases in Managerial Finance
Credits: 4
Same as Business 452 with additional requirements for graduate credit.
ECON 290 recommended prior to taking this course.
Prerequisites
Corporate Financial Management
BUS 554 International Finance
Credits: 4
Same as Business 454 with additional requirements for graduate credit.
ECON 290 recommended prior to taking this course.
Prerequisites
Corporate Financial Management
BUS 563 International Management
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 4
Same as Business 463 with additional requirements for graduate credit.
Prerequisites
Management of Organizations
BUS 565 Graduate Topics in Accounting
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 1-4
Course content varies with instructor. This course may be repeated for credit as along as topics
covered are diﬀerent. Potential topics include international accounting, accounting for derivatives
and hedging, forensic accounting and/or ESG accounting.
Prerequisites: Varies with course topic
/uni00A0
BUS 566 Personnel and Human Resource
Management
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 4
Same as Business 466 with additional requirements for graduate credit.
Prerequisites: BUS 361 and one of the following: ECON 290, or PSYC 211/uni00A0
BUS 572 Cases in Market Strategy and Value
Analysis
Term: Fall
Credits: 4
Same as Business 472 with additional requirements for graduate credit.
/uni00A0
ECON/uni00A0290 is recommended prior to taking this course.
Prerequisites
Marketing Management
BUS 573 International Marketing
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 4
Same as Business 473 with additional requirements for graduate credit.
Prerequisites
Marketing Management
BUS 583 Advanced International Business
Cases
Term: Maymester
Credits: 4
Same as Business 483 with additional requirements for graduate credit.
Prerequisite: BUS 351 or BUS 361 or BUS 371
BUS 641 Research and Topics in Financial
Accounting
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 4
This course will require students to research and discuss current topics in ﬁnancial accounting with
an emphasis on recent or proposed accounting standards (FASB codiﬁcation).
Prerequisites:/uni00A0 Graduate Student Only.
BUS 643 Cost Accounting and Control Systems
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 4
An advanced study of conceptual and practical aspects of cost accounting. Topics include, but are
not limited to, measurement of organizational performance, resource allocation, activity-based
costing, break-even analysis, process costing, cost variances, transfer pricing, and choosing
among alternative projects. Emphasis will be placed on understanding the organization as a
control system.
Prerequisites: Graduate Student Only
BUS 644 Accounting for Governmental and Not-
for-Proﬁt Entities
Credits:  4
An overview of the accounting principles, procedures, and reporting for governmental and not-for-
proﬁt entities.
Topics include, but are not limited to, accounting for state and local governments, operating
statement accounts, budgetary accounting, general capital assets, long-term liabilities and debt
service, college and university accounting, and health care accounting. The course will stress
comparisons between governmental accounting and corporate accounting to strengthen the
students’ understanding of the conceptual bases of each.
Prerequisites; Graduate Student Only.
BUS 645 Taxation of Business Organizations
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits:  4
An intensive examination of the federal income tax laws as they relate to partnerships, trusts, and
corporations.
Discussions will focus on economic and policy issues surrounding the current tax structure. Also,
emphasis will be placed on tax research to enable students to analyze complex tax problems.
Prerequisites: Graduate Studnet Only.
BUS 646 Advanced Accounting
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits:  4
This course will address various topics in advanced accounting including, but not limited to,
consolidations, governmental and not-for-proﬁt, foreign currency transactions and partnership
accounting will be examined. Emerging issues related to the accounting profession will be
discussed as an integral part of the course.
Prerequisites: Graduate Students Only.
BUS 647 Legal and Regulatory Environment of
Business
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits:  4
The impact of federal regulations on businesses, particularly in the areas of antitrust law and
securities regulations. This course will examine the legal responsibilities of business owners and
directors, as well as the responsibilities of business entities.
Prerequisites: Graduate Student Only.
BUS 648 Systems Auditing
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits:  4
This course will focus on the advanced auditing topics especially as it relates to accounting
systems. Topics include, but are not limited to, internal control, data integrity/quality, management
assertions, sampling, and SOC reports.
Prerequisites: Graduate Students Only.
BUS 649 Ethics and Law for Accounting
Term: Spring
Credits:  4-6
This course exposes students to the basic concepts of business law and ethics as applicable to
the accounting profession. This course will analyze the relationship between business, society and
the accounting profession by creating an awareness of legal and ethical topics such as the
contracts, antitrust law, securities regulations, professional responsibilities, and ethical decision
making.
BUS 650 Data Analytics and Information
Systems
Term: Fall
Credits:  4
This course will focus on understanding data analytics and information system concepts in
accounting. This course will also include applying those concepts through the use of software
such as Excel, Power BI, and/or Alteryx to address analytics in accounting, auditing, and tax
contexts. The focus is on methods and techniques to analyze and understand data while also
making it easier to interpret, present, and utilize the results for decision making.
Prerequisite: Graduate Students Only
BUS 665 Graduate Topics in Accounting
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 1-4
Course content varies with instructor. This course may be repeated for credit as along as topics
covered are diﬀerent. Potential topics include international accounting, accounting for derivatives
and hedging, forensic accounting and/or ESG accounting.
Prerequisites: Graduate Student Only
BUS 675 Professional Development and Exam
Preparation
Term: Fall
Credits: 1-4
This is a self-paced, self-study course using approved exam preparation software. Students will be
required to complete speciﬁed modules to earn approved credit hours. Students will also be
required to meet periodically with supervising faculty. Students with suﬃcient accounting courses
to take the CPA examination or equivalent professional examination (e.g., CMA examination, CFA
examination), may choose up to 4 credits.
BUS 680 Ethics: Business and Society
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 4
This is a survey course of the relationship between business and society. The course explores a
wide variety of analytical models that
might be used to evaluate business decisions from an ethical perspective. The course uses
lectures, discussion and case methods to
analyze the relationship between business and the public with which it interacts.
CHEM 105 Topics in Chemistry
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 4
Chemical principles and information will be studied through the examination of thematic topics in
the chemical sciences. Designed for students majoring in disciplines other than science and
mathematics. Includes a laboratory experience.
Degree Requirements
F7
CHEM 107 Chemistry and Archaeology
Term: Fall
Credits: 4
The scientiﬁc analysis and study of ancient materials has greatly enhanced our understanding of
the past. In this course for non-science majors, we will undertake a survey of archaeological
materials and the science that is pertinent to the development of an understanding of such
materials. Minimal prior knowledge of chemistry is assumed, and only basic math skills are
required. Three lecture periods and one laboratory experience each week.
Degree Requirements
F7
CHEM 108 Chemistry and Art
Term: Spring
Credits: 4
The materials available to artists and the properties of those materials have greatly aﬀected the
type of artistic work that has been produced. In this course for non-science majors, we will explore
the intersection of chemistry with the visual arts. The chemistry of ceramic materials, glasses, and
metals will be considered, along with the chemistry of pigments and painting. Minimal prior
knowledge of chemistry is assumed, and only basic math skills are required. Three lecture periods
and one laboratory experience each week.
Degree Requirements
F7
CHEM 120 Foundations of Chemistry
Term: Fall
Credits: 3
A study of the basic concepts and principles of chemistry. Topics to be considered include
stoichiometry, acids and bases, atomic and molecular structure, bonding, kinetics and
thermodynamics./uni00A0F7 awarded only with satisfactory completion of CHEM 120 and CHEM 125.
Degree Requirements
F7
CHEM 125 First Year Chemistry Laboratory
Term: Fall
Credits: 1
Co-requisite course for CHEM 120.
An experimental introduction to the physical and chemical properties of matter. One laboratory
period a week.
CHEM 206 Environmental Chemistry
Term: Spring
Credits: 4
An introduction to the chemical principles of water, soil, air and the biosphere, including those that
govern the fate, transport and eﬀects of chemical species in nature. The course will focus on the
chemistry of natural systems as well as human impact on these systems. Various methods and
modern analytical instrumentation will be introduced. . Three hours of lecture per week.
Prerequisites
Foundations of Chemistry
CHEM 211 Organic Chemistry I
Term: Spring
Credits: 4
A general survey of elementary theory, preparation, reactions, and properties of the compounds of
carbon, both aliphatic and aromatic, containing the most important functional groups.
Prerequisites
Foundations of Chemistry
First Year Chemistry Laboratory
CHEM 212 Organic Chemistry II with Lab
Term: Fall
Credits: 4, 2
A continuation of Organic Chemistry I. Topics to be covered including various instrumental
methods to determine molecular structures of organic compounds; reactions and preparations of
carbonyl compounds, amines and aromatics. Lab co-requisite emphasis is placed upon synthesis
and the common laboratory techniques encountered in organic chemistry. One hour of lecture and
three hours of laboratory per week.
Prerequisites
Organic Chemistry I
CHEM 240 Analytical Chemistry with Lab
Term: Spring
Credits:  4, 1
Lecture topics include sampling, statistical analysis, experimental design and optimization,
chemical equilibrium, and an introduction to modern instrumental analysis.
Laboratory experiments will apply the total analytical process, from collecting samples, chemical
workup, and analysis. Experimental methods will include volumetric analysis and elementary
instrumental analysis. Three hours of laboratory per week.
Prerequisites
Organic Chemistry II with Lab
CHEM 260 Collaborative Chemistry
Communities
Term: Spring
Credits:  2
This service learning course allows students to work with local teachers to design chemistry
experiments and exercises. Lecture topics include modern chemistry pedagogy.
Degree Requirements
F11
Prerequisites
Organic Chemistry II with Lab
CHEM 311 Physical Chemistry I
Term: Fall
Credits:  4
This is an upper level course that explores the interface of Physics and Chemistry. Calculus, group
theory and matrix algebra are used extensively in deriving chemical concepts. Derivatives,
integration, programming, matrix algebra and basic group theory are required to complete
assignments.
An introduction to quantum mechanics and spectroscopy as applied to molecules and small
molecular clusters. Includes discussion of NMR, lasers, and ab initio calculations.
Co-requisites: PHYS 109 or PHYS 111
Degree Requirements
F6
Prerequisites
Analytical Chemistry with Lab
CHEM 312 Physical Chemistry II Lab
Term: Spring
Credits:  1
An introduction to chemical thermodynamics, kinetics, and statistical mechanics as applied to
chemical and biochemical systems.
Experimental study of physico-chemical systems using modern instrumental techniques. One
laboratory period a week. Additional time outside lab hours may be required.
Prerequisites
Physical Chemistry I
CHEM 315 Biochemistry
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits:  4
A study of the metabolism of carbohydrates, fats and proteins, The kinetics and bioenergetics of
enzymatic reactions in metabolic pathways will also be studied.
Prerequisites
Organic Chemistry II with Lab
Biology I
Biology I Lab
CHEM 325 Computational Protein Design and
Engineering
Credits:  4
Students in this course will explore and participate in development of protein-based therapeutics
and biotools through hands-on computational protein design and engineering. This course will be
an interactive lecture/lab that takes a deep dive into using computational chemistry to design
protein-based therapeutic interventions, to computationally engineer biotools that could be used
to study biological systems, to develop models of proteins structures that could advance our
understanding of diseases, and to develop biocatalysts which have applications in
biopharmaceuticals or industry. Students will learn relevant skills and tools used in protein design
and biomolecular engineering such as advanced characterization of protein structure, protein-
protein docking, homology modeling, computational biochemistry, bioinformatics methodologies,
and molecular dynamics. No computational experience is required for this course. This course is a
course based undergraduate research experience (CURE) and can be used to develop or expand
students’ exposure to research environments, garner research experience for preparation and
matriculation into graduate programs and/or professional health programs.
Prerequisites
Biochemistry
CHEM 406 Instrumental Analysis
Term: Fall
Credits:  4
A study of the principles and practice modern instrumental analyses, including absorption and
emission spectroscopy, mass spectrometry, chromatography, and Fourier transform infrared
spectroscopy. Emphasis is placed on understanding the major instrumental methods chemists use
to study chemical phenomena. One hour of lecture and 3 hours of laboratory per week.
Prerequisites
Analytical Chemistry with Lab
Physical Chemistry II Lab
CHEM 408 Inorganic Chemistry with Lab
Term: Spring
Credits: 4, 1
An in-depth study of d-block coordination compounds including topics of molecular symmetry,
group theory, bonding, vibrational spectroscopy, ligand ﬁeld theory, organometallics, and catalysis.
Includes an interdisciplinary synthetic laboratory involving inorganic synthesis and catalysis of
organic reactions.
Prerequisites
Analytical Chemistry with Lab
CHEM 411 Medicinal and Computational
Chemistry with Lab
Term: Spring
Credits: 4, 1
This course will cover a variety of topics in organic, physical and/uni00A0biochemistry, all related to the
overall theme of medicinal chemistry. Topics/uni00A0may include natural products, organic/uni00A0synthesis,
computational modeling,/uni00A0toxicology, and drug design. This course counts towards the
neuroscience major if the student completes their independent project on a topic in neuroscience.
This lab course will cover topics in advanced organic chemistry, spectroscopy/uni00A0and
characterization, biochemistry, and modelling techniques.
Prerequisites
Organic Chemistry II with Lab
CHEM 415 Advanced Biochemistry
Term: Spring
Credits: 4
The course consists of an independent project designed to integrate topics in biochemistry, and to
hone the students’ writing and oral presentation skills.
Prerequisites
Biochemistry
CHEM 416 Mechanisms of Drug Action
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 4
A study of chemicals that produce change in function of biological systems and the mechanisms
by which these chemicals act. The course focuses on the main classes of drugs as well as some of
the more popular contemporary drugs and how they aﬀect their target biological systems.
Applicable pharmacology-related literature is also emphasized to give students exposure to the
types of techniques used in drug research.
Prerequisites:
BIOL 130/131
BIOL 140/141
CHEM 211
CHEM 212
CHEM 240 or CHEM 414
CHEM 420 Advanced Topics in Chemistry
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 4
A study of contemporary topics in chemistry or chemistry related disciplines. Speciﬁc course
themes will vary from semester to semester. This course will build upon introductory and
intermediate level studies in chemistry.
/uni00A0
Prerequisites
Organic Chemistry II with Lab
Analytical Chemistry with Lab
CHEM 422 Advanced Organic Chemistry: Topics
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 2-4
A study of the principles and practice of modern methods of organic chemistry, including nuclear
magnetic resonance spectroscopy, mass spectrometry, and infrared spectroscopy. The course will
focus on structure determination and the original design and synthesis of molecules. Hours may
be distributed between lecture and laboratory.
Prerequisites
Organic Chemistry II with Lab
CHEM 451 Research in Chemistry
Term: Fall
Credits: 1-4
Original investigations of chemical or biochemical problems usually related/uni00A0to research being
carried on by members of the department. The ﬁrst semester/uni00A0is probationary, and/uni00A0enrollment in the
second semester and beyond requires/uni00A0approval of the instructor. For degree purposes four credits
of 451 and/or/uni00A0452 will be equivalent to a course even if these credits are not all taken in/uni00A0the same
semester.
CHEM 452 Research in Chemistry
Term: Spring
Credits: 1-4
Original investigations of chemical or biochemical problems usually related/uni00A0to research being
carried on by members of the department. The ﬁrst semester/uni00A0is probationary, and/uni00A0enrollment in the
second semester and beyond requires/uni00A0approval of the instructor. For degree purposes four credits
of 451 and/or/uni00A0452 will be equivalent to a course even if these credits are not all taken in/uni00A0the same
semester.
CHEM 460 Chemistry Internship
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 1-4
A course designed to give students experience in chemical research and technology, guided by a
chemical professional mentor. Students may work on or oﬀ campus depending on the preferences
of the sponsoring company or institution. Examples of possible work area Include chemical
manufacturing, product discovery, research and development, or forensic characterization.
Successful completion will include a written report and an oral presentation.
CHEM 485 Chemistry Senior Seminar
Term: Fall
Credits: 4
A seminar course required of all senior chemistry majors. The course is designed to promote
independent thinking, integration of topics in chemistry, and to provide practice in group
discussion and in written and oral presentation.
CHEM 486 Chemistry Senior Seminar
Term: Spring
Credits:  4
A seminar course required of all senior chemistry majors. The course is designed to promote
independent thinking, integration of topics in chemistry, and to provide practice in group
discussion and in written and oral presentation.
CHEM 495 Honors Tutorial
Term: Fall
Credits:  4-8
Open to candidates for honors in chemistry. Includes supervised honors research in a chemical or
biochemical ﬁeld of study.
CHEM 496 Honors Tutorial
Term: Spring
Credits:  4-8
Open to candidates for honors in chemistry. Includes supervised honors research in a chemical or
biochemical ﬁeld of study.
CHIN 100 Chinese Language in China
Term: Maymester
Credits:  2
Chinese 100 is a 2-credit course taught to students with no prior knowledge of Chinese during the
Rhodes College Maymester program in a host institution in China. The course focuses on the four
basic skills of listening, speaking, reading, and writing. It introduces students to Chinese language
and culture. It involves language studies and cultural activities.
CHIN 101 Elementary Chinese
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits:  4
This two-semester course introduces Chinese to students with no knowledge of the language.
Equal emphasis will be given to acquiring
the rudiments of spoken and written Chinese. Students who complete the year-long course will
master approximately 700 characters and
a vocabulary of a 1,000 words. It also intends to acquaint students with some aspects of Chinese
culture and society as a necessary part
of their education in this language.
CHIN 102 Elementary Chinese
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits:  4
This two-semester course introduces Chinese to students with no knowledge of the language.
Equal emphasis will be given to acquiring
the rudiments of spoken and written Chinese. Students who complete the year-long course will
master approximately 700 characters and
a vocabulary of a 1,000 words. It also intends to acquaint students with some aspects of Chinese
culture and society as a necessary part
of their education in this language.
CHIN 200 Chinese Language in China
Term: Maymester
Credits:  2
Chinese 200 is a 2-credit course taught during the Rhodes College Maymester program in a host
institution in China. The course focuses on the four skills of listening, speaking, reading, and
writing. Students enrolled in this should have completed Chinese 102 or have equivalent level of
proﬁciency. It deepens students’ knowledge and understanding of Chinese language and culture.
It involves language studies and cultural activities.
CHIN 201 Intermediate Chinese
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits:  4
In addition to the same objectives for the ﬁrst year, this course aims at improving students’ aural-
oral skills to achieve ﬂuency and
comprehension, further developing their proﬁciency in reading for understanding, and enhancing
their ability to write in Chinese and to
translate from Chinese into English and vice versa.
Degree Requirements
F10
CHIN 202 Intermediate Chinese
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits:  4
In addition to the same objectives for the ﬁrst year, this course aims at improving students’ aural-
oral skills to achieve ﬂuency and
comprehension, further developing their proﬁciency in reading for understanding, and enhancing
their ability to write in Chinese and to
translate from Chinese into English and vice versa.
CHIN 205 Modern Chinese Literature in English
Translation
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits:  4
An introductory course of modern Chinese literature (1918-1989) designed to acquaint students
with major phases of modern Chinese
literature and some masterpieces of representative writers in relation to political and social
changes. The course provides opportunities to
learn about modern Chinese culture, society, and politics through readings of chosen works and
trains students to read thoughtfully and
critically. The course is taught in English. Chinese 305 is reserved for majors, who will do
substantial portions of the work for the course
in Chinese.
Degree Requirements
F4
F9
CHIN 206 Introduction to East Asian Cultures
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits:  4
This course introduces East Asian cultures through the classic works of China, Japan, and Korea. In
order to better grasp the cultural
legacies of East Asia, students will read various cultural texts such as ﬁction, poetry, drama, and
prose in English translation. This course
is designed to help students develop a more sophisticated understanding of and critical
appreciation for East Asian cultures. The course
is taught in English. Chinese 306 is reserved for majors, who will do substantial portions of the
work for the course in Chinese.
Degree Requirements
F4
F9
CHIN 207 Orientalism and Global China on
Screen
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits:  4
This course explores both the evolving Chinese worldview represented in Chinese ﬁlms and the
western texts on China and the
Orient/East/Asia. While the course introduces the theoretical foundation of Chinese worldviews in
response to Orientalism and
globalization, students will also survey the (mis-)representation of India and the Middle East in the
western world for comparative
purposes. In addition to watching ﬁlms and documentaries, students are required to read scholarly
works, historical accounts, poems, and
travelogues in order to better understand diverse worldviews. By engaging the East-West dynamic,
this course is designed for students
interested in the issues of cross-cultural understanding and global consciousness. The course is
taught in English. Chinese 307 is
reserved for majors, who will do substantial portions of the work for the course in Chinese.
Degree Requirements
F5
F9
CHIN 210 Chinese Literary Heritage
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits:  4
This course introduces one of the world’s richest literary heritages: traditional Chinese literature. It
conducts a general survey of Chinese
literature from high antiquity up to modern times with the focus on some representative writers and
their works. It consists of three major
sections: poetry and prose, drama, and ﬁction. All readings are in English. No prior knowledge of
Chinese language and culture is
required.
Degree Requirements
F4
F9
CHIN 214 Introduction to Chinese Culture
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits:  4
This course introduces students to Chinese civilization and culture from the multiple perspectives
of geography, history, philosophy,
language, literature, religion, art, people, society, and general ways of life. Major concerns will
include, but are not restricted to, forms of
material and spiritual culture that have developed and changed through China’s continuous
traditions; individual and collective values
that underlie social life, political organization, economics systems, family structure, human
relationships, and individual behavior; and
the rationales that have made Chinese culture what it is. The course is taught in English. Chinese
314 is reserved for majors, who will do
substantial portions of the work for the course in Chinese.
Degree Requirements
F3
F9
CHIN 215 Gender in Chinese Literature
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits:  4
This course looks into the changing constructions of gender, sexuality, and desire in Chinese
literature and ﬁlm over time. It seeks to examine the social, cultural and institutional norms of
gender behaviors in Chinese society as well as how the ﬁctional imagination conforms to, deviates
from and subverts these norms. Other critical issues discussed include the complex relationships
between identity and performance, the construction of female subjectivity and male fantasy,
gender and genre. Students will be encouraged to conduct cross-genre and cross-cultural
comparisons. All readings in English. Chinese 315 is reserved for majors, who will do substantial
portions of the work for the course in Chinese.
Degree Requirements
F4
F9
CHIN 216 Asian Urbanization through Cinema
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits:  4
Urbanization is one of the most prominent social-historical transformations that many Asian
countries have experienced since the
beginning of the 20th century. Today, the huge wave of rural-urban internal migration in Asian
countries represents one of the largest
population ﬂows in the world. This course looks into ongoing urbanization as well as related
demographic, economic and socio-cultural
changes occurring in a number of Asian cities and how the challenges associated with such
transformations are portrayed in
contemporary cinema. The course looks into metropolises in Mainland China, Hong Kong, Taiwan,
Japan, and Korea. In addition, it also
explores diasporic Asian spaces and the subsequent issues regarding race, immigration, identity
and sense of place. It combines urban
studies with ﬁlm studies. Taught in English. No prerequisites. This course also qualiﬁes as an
elective for Urban Studies, Asian Studies,
Film Studies, and Environmental Studies.
Degree Requirements
F5
F9
CHIN 218 Taste, Culture and Power: Asia and
Global Foodways
Term: Spring
Credits: 4
As a basic human need, food has had a powerful inﬂuence on world civilization. This course uses
Asia as a hub to examine the historical and contemporary transcontinental and transnational ﬂows
of food and its signiﬁcant impact on societies and cultures. It looks into how the migration of food,
both out from Asia and into Asia throughout history, connected diﬀerent regions and cultures in the
world and how this “inter-connectedness” has shaped human experiences, societies and cultures.
The second half of the course pays special attention to the globalization of Asian food and the
making of ethnic cuisines in contemporary societies (especially in North America), and urge us to
re-think issues regarding race, ethnicity, immigration, gender and identity in food culture and
politics. All readings and discussion are in English. No prerequisites.
Degree Requirements
F3
F9
CHIN 220 Contemporary Chinese Cinema
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 4
An introductory course on contemporary Chinese cinema that combines ﬁlm viewing with readings
of ﬁlm theory and criticism. The aim is to provide a window for students to glimpse the complexity
of contemporary Chinese culture. Students will view selected Chinese ﬁlms produced in mainland
China, Taiwan, and Hong Kong from the 1980’s to the present and be required to read essays of
critical
studies which explore the interrelations of various issues in Chinese society. The course is taught
in English. Chinese 320 is reserved for majors, who will do substantial portions of the work for the
course in Chinese.
Degree Requirements
F5
F9
CHIN 300 Chinese Language in China
Term: Maymester
Credits: 2
Chinese 300 is a 2-credit course taught during the Rhodes College Maymester program in a host
institution in China. The course is designed to further develop proﬁciency in listening, speaking,
reading and writing through studies of socio-cultural topics relevant to today's China. Students
enrolled in this should have completed Chinese 202 or have equivalent level of proﬁciency. It
involves language studies and cultural activities.
CHIN 301 Advanced Chinese
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits:  4
This course lays greater emphasis on further developing students’ proﬁciency in reading for
understanding and enhancing their ability to
write in Chinese and to translate from Chinese into English and vice versa. At the end of the year-
long course students should be able to
read Chinese materials in everyday life, to write compositions in Chinese characters for daily
communication, and to translate nontechnical
materials from Chinese into English and vice versa with the help of dictionaries.
CHIN 302 Advanced Chinese
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits:  4
This course lays greater emphasis on further developing students’ proﬁciency in reading for
understanding and enhancing their ability to
write in Chinese and to translate from Chinese into English and vice versa. At the end of the year-
long course students should be able to
read Chinese materials in everyday life, to write compositions in Chinese characters for daily
communication, and to translate nontechnical
materials from Chinese into English and vice versa with the help of dictionaries.
CHIN 305 Modern Chinese Literature
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits:  4
An introductory course of modern Chinese literature (1918-1989) designed to acquaint students
with major phases of modern Chinese
literature and some masterpieces of representative writers in relation to political and social
changes. The course provides opportunities to
learn about modern Chinese culture, society, and politics through readings of chosen works and
trains students to read thoughtfully and
critically. The course is taught in English. Chinese 305 is reserved for majors, who will do
substantial portions of the work for the course
in Chinese.
Degree Requirements
F4
F9
CHIN 306 Introduction to East Asian Cultures
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits:  4
This course introduces East Asian cultures through the classic works of China, Japan, and Korea. In
order to better grasp the cultural
legacies of East Asia, students will read various cultural texts such as ﬁction, poetry, drama, and
prose in English translation. This course
is designed to help students develop a more sophisticated understanding of and critical
appreciation for East Asian cultures. The course
is taught in English. Chinese 306 is reserved for majors, who will do substantial portions of the
work for the course in Chinese.
Degree Requirements
F4
F9
CHIN 307 Orientalism and Global China on
Screen
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits:  4
This course explores both the evolving Chinese worldview represented in Chinese ﬁlms and the
western texts on China and the
Orient/East/Asia. While the course introduces the theoretical foundation of Chinese worldviews in
response to Orientalism and
globalization, students will also survey the (mis-)representation of India and the Middle East in the
western world for comparative
purposes. In addition to watching ﬁlms and documentaries, students are required to read scholarly
works, historical accounts, poems, and
travelogues in order to better understand diverse worldviews. By engaging the East-West dynamic,
this course is designed for students
interested in the issues of cross-cultural understanding and global consciousness. The course is
taught in English. Chinese 307 is
reserved for majors, who will do substantial portions of the work for the course in Chinese.
Degree Requirements
F5
F9
CHIN 310 Readings (Advanced Level)
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 1-4
Readings designed to meet individual interests and needs. May be taken more than once for
credit with new topics.
CHIN 311 Supplemental Readings
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 1
This reading course is reserved for Chinese majors and/uni00A0minors. It is designed to give students
opportunities to read, write,
and speak in Chinese in conjunction with the coursework in English. May be taken more than once
for credit with new topics.
CHIN 314 Introduction to Chinese Culture
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 4
This course introduces students to Chinese civilization and culture from the multiple perspectives
of geography, history, philosophy, language, literature, religion, art, people, society, and general
ways of life. Major concerns will include, but are not restricted to, forms of material and spiritual
culture that have developed and changed through China’s continuous traditions; individual and
collective values that underlie social life, political organization, economics systems, family
structure, human relationships, and individual behavior; and the rationales that have made Chinese
culture what it is. The course is taught in English. Chinese 314 is reserved for majors, who will do
substantial portions of the work for the course in Chinese.
Degree Requirements
F3
F9
CHIN 315 Gender in Chinese Literature
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits:  4
This course looks into the changing constructions of gender, sexuality, and desire in Chinese
literature and ﬁlm over time. It seeks to
examine the social, cultural and institutional norms of gender behaviors in Chinese society as well
as how the ﬁctional imagination
conforms to, deviates from and subverts these norms. Other critical issues discussed include the
complex relationships between identity
and performance, the construction of female subjectivity and male fantasy, gender and genre.
Students will be encouraged to conduct
cross-genre and cross-cultural comparisons. All readings in English. Chinese 315 is reserved for
majors, who will do substantial portions
of the work for the course in Chinese.
Degree Requirements
F4
F9
CHIN 316 Asian Urbanization through Cinema
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits:  4
Urbanization is one of the most prominent social-historical transformations that many Asian
countries have experienced since the
beginning of the 20th century. Today, the huge wave of rural-urban internal migration in Asian
countries represents one of the largest
population ﬂows in the world. This course looks into ongoing urbanization as well as related
demographic, economic and socio-cultural
changes occurring in a number of Asian cities and how the challenges associated with such
transformations are portrayed in
contemporary cinema. The course looks into metropolises in Mainland China, Hong Kong, Taiwan,
Japan, and Korea. In addition, it also
explores diasporic Asian spaces and the subsequent issues regarding race, immigration, identity
and sense of place. It combines urban
studies with ﬁlm studies. Taught in English. No prerequisites. This course also qualiﬁes as an
elective for Urban Studies, Asian Studies,
Film Studies, and Environmental Studies.
Degree Requirements
F5
F9
CHIN 318 Taste, Culture and Power: Asia and
Global Foodways
Term: Spring
Credits: 4
As a basic human need, food has had a powerful inﬂuence on world civilization. This course uses
Asia as a hub to examine the historical and contemporary transcontinental and transnational ﬂows
of food and its signiﬁcant impact on societies and cultures. It looks into how the migration of food,
both out from Asia and into Asia throughout history, connected diﬀerent regions and cultures in the
world and how this “inter-connectedness” has shaped human experiences, societies and cultures.
The second half of the course pays special attention to the globalization of Asian food and the
making of ethnic cuisines in contemporary societies (especially in North America), and urge us to
re-think issues regarding race, ethnicity, immigration, gender and identity in food culture and
politics. All readings and discussion are in English. No prerequisites.
Degree Requirements
F3
F9
CHIN 320 Contemporary Chinese Cinema
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 4
An introductory course on contemporary Chinese cinema that combines ﬁlm viewing with readings
of ﬁlm theory and criticism. The aim
is to provide a window for students to glimpse the complexity of contemporary Chinese culture.
Students will view selected Chinese
ﬁlms produced in mainland China, Taiwan, and Hong Kong from the 1980’s to the present and be
required to read essays of critical
studies which explore the interrelations of various issues in Chinese society. The course is taught
in English. Chinese 320 is reserved for
majors, who will do substantial portions of the work for the course in Chinese.
Degree Requirements
F5
F9
CHIN 409 Special Topics
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits:  4
Intensive study of some aspect or theme of Chinese literature, culture or society in China. May be
taken more than once for credit with new topics.
Prerequisites
Advanced Chinese
Advanced Chinese
CHIN 485 Senior Seminar
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits:  2 or 4
This 4-credit course leads students to discuss a broad range of topics about contemporary China
and to conduct a senior project of Chinese Studies. Students will participate in class discussions
on assigned readings and provide weekly progress reports of their senior research projects.
Under special circumstances, students may be allowed to take the senior seminar for 2 credits
only. Under its project-driven design, the 2-credit seminar gives each major student the
opportunity to conduct a senior project of Chinese Studies. Both the 2-credit and 4-credit courses
conclude with the completion of the senior essay and a formal academic presentation given by
each major student.
COMP 141 Computer Science I: Programming
Fundamentals
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits:  4
An introduction to the fundamental concepts and practices of procedural programming. Topics
include data types, control structures,functions, arrays, ﬁles, and the mechanics of running, testing,
and debugging. Emphasis is placed on program design and problemsolving techniques. The
course also includes an introduction to the historical and social context of computing and an
overview of computer science as a discipline.
Degree Requirements
F6
COMP 142 Computer Science II: Object-
Oriented Programming
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits:  4
An introduction to the fundamental concepts and practices of object-oriented programming. The
object-oriented programming paradigm
is introduced, with a focus on the deﬁnition and use of classes as a basis for fundamental object-
oriented program design. Other topics
include an overview of programming language principles, simple analysis of algorithms, basic
searching and sorting techniques, and an
introduction to software engineering issues.
Degree Requirements
F6
Prerequisites
Computer Science I: Programming Fundamentals
COMP 172 Discrete Structures for Computer
Science
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits:  4
An introduction to and survey of the mathematics used in computer science including functions,
relations, sets, counting, logic, Boolean
algebra, proof techniques, induction, recursion, computational complexity, and computability. Other
topics may be included as time
permits.
Degree Requirements
F6
Prerequisites
Computer Science I: Programming Fundamentals
COMP 231 Introduction to Computer
Organization
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits:  4
A bottom-up exploration of the interaction between computer hardware and software. Topics
begin with an introduction to digital logic,
and continue through elementary processor design, to assembly language, machine data
representation, and computer arithmetic. Other
topics in contemporary computer architecture such as multicore processors and GPGPU’s may be
discussed as time allows. Projects
include hardware and simulated digital circuits as well as programs in assembly language.
Prerequisites
Computer Science I: Programming Fundamentals
COMP 241 Computer Science III: Data
Structures and Algorithms
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits:  4
An introduction to the fundamental concepts of data structures and the algorithms that arise from
them, using the object-oriented design
paradigm. Data structures covered include stacks, queues, linked lists, hash tables, trees, and
graphs. Other topics include an introduction
to iterative and recursive algorithmic strategies and basic algorithm analysis.
Co-requisite: COMP 172 (unless already taken)
Prerequisites
Computer Science II: Object-Oriented Programming
COMP 251 Introduction to Computer Systems
Term: Fall
Credits: 4
This course is an introduction to system-aware computer programming. Beginning with an
overview of the fundamental elements and concepts that are common to all computer systems,
including computer architecture, operating systems, compilers, and networks, students will learn
how these aﬀect the performance and behavior of computer programs. Additionally, students will
learn a system-level programming language and set of tools for writing low-level programs at the
operating system boundary. Students completing COMP251 will be prepared for advanced topics
in systems, including operating system programming, parallel and distributed computing, and
networking. Topics include: memory management and organization; caching and the memory
hierarchy; system calls; network programming and I/O; processes, threads, synchronization, and
concurrency; performance analysis and measurement; and debugging.
Prerequisite: COMP 142
COMP 265 Computer Science Professional
Development
Term: Spring
Credits: 1
This course is designed to help students prepare for meaningful computer science-related
internships and careers. Key areas of focus are: (1) How to network eﬀectively using such tools as
LinkedIn; (2)Preparing for computer science interviews; (3) How to use Rhodes resources for
career planning; (4) Creating eﬀective resumes; (5) How to leverage internships for career
development. Enrollment by permission of the instructor.
Prerequisites
Computer Science III: Data Structures and Algorithms
COMP 315 Computer Networks
Term: Spring
Credits: 4
An introduction to the structure and components of computer networks, packet switching, layered
architectures, loosely coupled computer communication, network services and protocols, as well
as the analysis of generic network models. Topics include: network topologies, router
architectures, network-aware applications, content dissemination systems, network security, and
performance issues.
Prerequisites: COMP 231 and COMP 241
COMP 320 Computer Graphics
Term: Spring
Credits: 4
Coverage of the basic concepts of 2D and 3D graphics, including an overview of graphics
hardware, use of a graphics application programming interface, user interface design, techniques
for computer animation, and graphical algorithms such as geometric transformations, clipping,
windowing, hidden surface removal, and raster graphics techniques for the representation of
curves, surfaces, and solids.
/uni00A0
Prerequisites
Computer Science III: Data Structures and Algorithms
COMP 325 Graphics, Virtual Environments, and
Human Computer Interaction
Term: Spring
Credits: 4
An introduction to the basics of 3D computer graphics, virtual environments (VEs), and human-
computer interaction (HCI). Fundamental graphics topics include ray-tracing, 3D modeling,
animation, lighting, rendering, cameras, and more./uni00A0 Topics will also include how to interact with and
experience a 3D model using the input and output devices that are typically found in a VE system
(like the Oculus Rift)./uni00A0 This project-based course will focus on using hardware and creating
software for VE applications with fundamental HCI principles in mind./uni00A0
Prerequisite: COMP 241
COMP 330 Operating Systems
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits:  4
An introduction to the fundamentals of operating systems design and implementation. Topics
include the process model and implementation of processes, an overview of the major
components of a modern operating system, mutual exclusion and interprocess synchronization, a
survey of scheduling algorithms, memory management techniques, and ﬁle systems.
Prerequisites
Introduction to Computer Systems
COMP 340 Databases
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits:  4
An introduction to the design and use of database systems, as well as the key issues in building
such systems. Topics include the relational model, logical database design, query languages, and
database implementation issues such as storage and indexing, query processing and optimization,
concurrency control, and transaction management. In addition to traditional database topics, this
course provides an introduction to key technologies for managing and exchanging data on the
World Wide Web.
Prerequisites
Introduction to Computer Systems
COMP 342 Bioinformatics
Term: Spring
Credits:  4
This course is an introduction to the ﬁelds of bioinformatics and computational biology, with a
central focus on algorithms and their application to a diverse set of computational problems in
molecular biology. Fundamental concepts from computer science such as greedy algorithms,
dynamic programming, recursion, and asymptotic notation will be taught within the context of
motivating problems drawn from contemporary biology. Example biological topics include
sequence alignment, motif ﬁnding, gene rearrangement, DNA sequencing, phylogeny, and gene
expression analysis.
/uni00A0
Prerequisites
Computer Science III: Data Structures and Algorithms
COMP 345 Data Mining
Term: Fall
Credits: 4
An introduction to data mining and knowledge discovery. Data mining concerns itself with the goal
of getting a computer to learn or discover patterns, especially those found within large datasets.
Students will be introduced to various models and learn how to apply them in practice. Topics
include classiﬁcation, clustering, association rules, and recommender systems.
Prerequisites
Computer Science III: Data Structures and Algorithms
COMP 350 Theory of Computation
Term: Spring
Credits: 4
A study of theoretical models for computing. The hierarchy of ﬁnite state machines, pushdown
machines, context free grammars, and Turing machines will be analyzed, along with their
variations. The basic concepts of decidability, complexity theory, and NP-Complete problems will
be introduced. (Course oﬀered in alternate years; scheduled for 2016-2017.)
Prerequisites
Discrete Structures for Computer Science
COMP 355 Advanced Algorithms
Term: Spring
Credits: 4
An in-depth study of the design and analysis of advanced algorithms, including the performance
tradeoﬀs and resources required by various algorithmic implementations. Major classes of
computational problems will be identiﬁed and explored. Advanced data structures and
approximation heuristics are introduced as required for solution design. Topics vary depending on
the speciﬁc problems covered but will include the Master Theorem, dynamic programming, divide-
and-conquer and greedy algorithms./uni00A0
Prerequisites
Discrete Structures for Computer Science
Computer Science III: Data Structures and Algorithms
COMP 360 Programming Languages
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 4
A wide-ranging and in-depth coverage of fundamental programming language concepts,
presenting design issues of the various language constructs, and examining the design choices for
these constructs in a range of the most popular contemporary programming languages. Language
design alternatives are examined and critiqued. Methods of syntax description, common
approaches to describing the semantics of programming languages, and various implementation
approaches are covered.
Prerequisites
Computer Science III: Data Structures and Algorithms
Introduction to Computer Systems
COMP 365 Software Engineering
Term: Spring
Credits: 4
The software systems we often ﬁnd the most useful and magical are also the largest and most
complex to build and understand. In order for these systems to be reliable, maintainable, and
secure, they must be built according to disciplined and well-founded methods. This course
examines these methods—both in the large (deﬁning requirements, system design, architecture
patterns, software process, etc.) and in the small (version control, testing, benchmarking, code
review, etc.). At the same time, students will engage in the construction of a large software system
or feature.
/uni00A0
Prerequisites
Computer Science III: Data Structures and Algorithms
COMP 370 Human-Robot Interaction
Term: Spring
Credits:  4
This course focuses on the emerging ﬁeld of human-robot interaction, bringing together research
and application of methodology from robotics, human factors, human-computer interaction,
interaction design, cognitive psychology, education, and other ﬁelds to enable robots to have
more natural and more rewarding interactions with humans throughout their spheres of
functioning. This course is a combination of state-of-art reading and discussions, focused exercises
and problem solving sessions in human-robot interaction, and a group project that includes the
design, development, and evaluation of a human-robot interaction system.
Prerequisites
Computer Science III: Data Structures and Algorithms
COMP 372 Artiﬁcial Intelligence
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits:  4
An introduction to the basic knowledge representation, problem solving, and learning methods of
artiﬁcial intelligence (AI). Students
study the core algorithms and data structures used in AI, abstract real problems into the
prototypical tasks that have been studied in AI,
and learn to map between abstract tasks and the basic AI techniques that address them.
Prerequisites
Computer Science III: Data Structures and Algorithms
COMP 375 Machine Learning
Term: Spring
Credits:  4
Machine learning is the practice of programming computers to learn and improve through
experience, and it is becoming pervasive in technology and science. This course will cover the
mathematical underpinnings, algorithms, and practices that enable a computer to learn. Topics will
include supervised learning, unsupervised learning, and the evaluation of learning algorithms.
Students will write computer programs and apply course skills to solve real-world prediction and
pattern recognition problems.
Prerequisites: COMP 241 and MATH 112 or MATH 115 or MATH 116
COMP 380 Parallel Systems
Credits:  4
An introduction to concurrent programming models and parallel computer architectures. Students
will learn the basic techniques of parallel program design, implementation, and performance
analysis. Topics include shared-memory and distributed-memory systems, parallel and distributed
algorithms, and high-performance computing.
Prerequisites
Introduction to Computer Systems
COMP 385 Distributed Systems
Term: Fall
Credits:  4
An introduction to modern distributed systems and how such systems enable the construction of
large-scale and highly-available software. Students will explore foundational topics (e.g.,
consensus, consistency, and fault tolerance) as well as applied (distributed ﬁle systems, cloud
computing, data processing and analytics systems).
Prerequisites
Introduction to Computer Systems
COMP 451 Research in Computer Science
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits:  1-4
Qualiﬁed students may conduct original research in computer science under the supervision of a
faculty mentor. A student may use four
combined credits from 451 and 452 towards one upper-level major elective. Students should
expect to commit at least three hours per
week per credit.
COMP 452 Research in Computer Science
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits:  1-4
Qualiﬁed students may conduct original research in computer science under the supervision of a
faculty mentor. A student may use four
combined credits from 451 and 452 towards one upper-level major elective. Students should
expect to commit at least three hours per
week per credit.
COMP 455 Readings in Computer Science
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 1-4
This course allows students to do advanced work not provided for in the regular courses. Its
content will be ﬁxed after consultation with
the student and in accord with his or her particular interests.
COMP 456 Readings in Computer Science
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 1-4
This course allows students to do advanced work not provided for in the regular courses. Its
content will be ﬁxed after consultation with
the student and in accord with his or her particular interests.
COMP 460 Internship
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 1-4
Internships in Computer Science, which are normally arranged by the Director of Career Services,
permit a qualiﬁed student to receive academic credit for oﬀ-campus work experience. Upon
completion of the internship, the student makes written and oral reports focusing on an integration
of the student’s academic work and the internship project. Normally the course will be taken on a
Pass/Fail basis; it does not count toward the requirements for the major or minor except with
special approval of the department. Interested students should contact the Chair of the
department and the Director of Career Services.
Degree Requirements
F11
COMP 461 Professional Development for Paid
Internship
Term: Summer
Credits: 1
The purpose of this course is to allow students to complete their F11 while simultaneously
completing a paid computer science internship. /uni00A0/uni00A0The idea of this class is analogous to COMP460
where students work for academic credit and complete an F11 component through Rhodes. /uni00A0/uni00A0This
course carries one hour of credit that is awarded on a Pass/Fail basis and requires that a student
be involved in an oﬀ-campus paid internship.
Degree Requirements
F11
COMP 465 Special Topics in Computer Science
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 4
An occasional oﬀering of topics not covered in the existing computer science courses. Examples
of topics include data mining, humancomputer
interfaces, virtual environments, bioinformatics, parallel systems, and compilers.
COMP 485 Senior Software Engineering
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 5
The software systems we often ﬁnd the most useful and magical are also the largest and most
complex to build and understand. In order for these systems to be reliable, maintainable, and
secure, they must be built according to disciplined and well-founded methods. This course
examines these methods—both in the large (deﬁning requirements, system design, architecture
patterns, software process, etc.) and in the small (version control, testing, benchmarking, code
review, etc.). At the same time, students will engage in the construction of a large software system
or feature.
Prerequisites
Computer Science III: Data Structures and Algorithms
COMP 486 Senior Seminar
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 4
Students embark on a semester long group project. Each team will produce a robust, scalable, and
maintainable large-scale piece of software based on the project proposal completed in COMP
485. In addition to collaborating on a speciﬁc project, students present material on a wide range of
software development topics, including software engineering, professional ethics, and current
trends in languages, tools, and methodologies. As a senior seminar, the course has a strong
problem-solving focus, encourages student participation and leadership, develops communication
skills, and stresses integration of the student's full undergraduate experience.
/uni00A0
Prerequisites
Computer Science III: Data Structures and Algorithms
COMP 495 Honors Tutorial in Computer Science
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 4-8
/uni00A0 /uni00A0
COMP 496 Honors Tutorial in Computer Science
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 4-8
/uni00A0 /uni00A0
ECON 100 Introduction to Economics
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 4
A survey of economic analysis and institutions combining economic theory with a discussion of
applications to the U. S. economic system for majors and non-majors. The course will include an
introduction to both microeconomics and macroeconomics. Microeconomics: Study of the
behavior of consumers and ﬁrms in competitive and noncompetitive markets, and the
consequences of this behavior for resource allocation and income distribution. Consideration of
government’s role in competitive and noncompetitive markets. Macroeconomics: Study of the
determination of the domestic levels of income, output, employment and prices; study of
international trade and ﬁnance. Consideration of economic growth and international trade.
Degree Requirements
F8
ECON 201 Intermediate Microeconomics
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 4
Development and practical application of tools of supply, demand, cost, capital, and proﬁt analysis,
including quantitative models, to
decision-making in a business enterprise. Additionally, a study of the problems of economic
measurement and forecasting methods,
business planning, product strategy, and location analysis.
Prerequisites
Introduction to Economics
ECON 202 Intermediate Macroeconomics
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 4
A study of the determinants of national income, its ﬂuctuation and growth. Contemporary ﬁscal and
monetary theories are analyzed in
connection with the causes and control of economic growth and ﬂuctuations.
/uni00A0
Degree Requirements
F8
Prerequisites
Introduction to Economics
ECON 250 Readings in Economics
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 1-2
Content of the course varies with instructor. The course may be repeated for credit as long as
topics covered are diﬀerent.
Prerequisites
Introduction to Economics
ECON 265 Topics in Economics
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 1-4
Content of the course varies with instructor. The course may be repeated for credit as long as
topics covered are diﬀerent.
Prerequisites
Introduction to Economics
ECON 290 Statistical Analysis for Economics
and Business
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 4
Drawing conclusions from limited information is a common characteristic of decision making in
economics and business. Although this
course is designed to introduce the student to basic concepts of probability and statistics as
applied to topics in Economics and Business,
emphasis will be placed on the use of statistical inference to reduce the impact of limited
information or uncertainty in decision-making.
Topics will include descriptive statistical measures, probability, random variables, probability
distributions, sampling distributions, point
and interval estimation, hypothesis testing, time series analysis, regression and the use of index
numbers.
Degree Requirements
F6
ECON 305 Public Economics
Term: Spring
Credits: 4
This course examines the role of the public sector in the economy. Students will learn about the
theoretical motivations for and eﬀects of government involvement in the economy as well as the
empirical evidence regarding the consequences of such intervention. Students of economics
should expect that rational economic agents will respond predictably to changes in incentives.
This course will explore the incentive structure implied by government involvement in the
economy and the predicted behavioral responses of individuals and ﬁrms.
The structure of the major revenue raising (i.e., taxation) and expenditure operations of the
government will be analyzed using microeconomic tools to determine their allocative and
distributive eﬀects.
Prerequisites
Intermediate Microeconomics
ECON 308 Industrial Organization
Term: Spring
Credits: 4
In Industrial Organization we study the relation between industry structure and market outcomes.
Basic microeconomics teaches us that competitive markets—characterized, among other things, by
the presence of many ﬁrms—yield economic eﬃcient outcomes. Industrial Organization, on the
other hand, focuses on the potential departures from eﬃciency in markets with fewer than many
participants. Firms’ behavior and interaction, and, therefore, the achieved level of eﬃciency in such
markets depend on a number of parameters and the aim of this course is to investigate some of
these possibilities. Topics covered include non-uniform pricing by a monopoly, quantity and price
competition, cartels and collusion, product diﬀerentiation, ﬁrm entry and exit, and matching
markets.
/uni00A0
Prerequisites
Introduction to Economics
ECON 310 International Trade and Policy
Term: Fall
Credits: 4
The study of the determinants of comparative advantage and international trade. The course will
include analysis of the winners and
losers from trade and the resulting trade policies such as protectionism or export promotion. The
course will also cover the movement of
factors across borders, speciﬁcally immigration and international investment, and the policy
restricting and promoting factor ﬂows.
Prerequisites
Introduction to Economics
ECON 311 International Financial Economics
Term: Spring
Credits: 2
This course will study balance of payment ﬂows and exchange rate determination, with an
introduction to international ﬁnancial markets
and instruments. It will cover economic policy under ﬁxed and ﬂexible exchange rates, in addition
to exchange rate regime choice,
balance of payments crises, and speculative attacks.
Prerequisites
Introduction to Economics
ECON 312 Economic Development
Term: Spring
Credits: 4
This course addresses the scope and causes of international inequality, particularly the nature of
the economic problems facing the
world’s poorer countries, with emphasis on the African, South American, and Asian continents.
Theories of growth and inequality,
uneven development, and the roles of schooling, foreign trade, agriculture, manufacturing, fertility,
migration, ﬁnance, and the
environment in the development process will be considered. The goals of the course are to teach
students how to model and use the
models to formulate policy in the unique contexts of developing economies. (Course not oﬀered
2015-16.)
Degree Requirements
F9
Prerequisites
Introduction to Economics
ECON 317 Money and Banking
Term: Fall
Credits: 2
An analysis of the relationship between money and economic activity with an emphasis on
monetary theory, commercial banking,
ﬁnancial markets and interest rates. Special attention is given to international ﬁnancial markets. The
interface of monetary policy, ﬁscal
policy and debt management is also considered. (Course oﬀered in alternate years.)
Prerequisites
Introduction to Economics
ECON 318 Economics of Crime and Corruption
Credits: 2
This course explores the contributions of economics to the understanding of crime and corruption.
The perspectives and quantitative
analytical techniques of economics are used to examine important issues concerning crime and
corruption. Topics may include: rationalchoice
criminology; development and corruption; measuring the costs of crime and corruption; organized
crime, white-collar crime;
environmental crime; illicit drugs; human traﬃcking; gender and race issues concerning crime, and
special topics selected by the
instructor. (Course oﬀered in alternate years.)
Prerequisites
Introduction to Economics
ECON 319 Economics of Income Inequality
Term: Fall
Credits: 2
This course will use macro and microeconomic models to explore the issues surrounding income
inequality in the United States. Topics discussed will include the measurement and trends in
income inequality, reasons income inequality is considered problematic by many, its causes, and
the many policies intended to address income inequality, starting with Johnson’s “War on Poverty”
through to current policy eﬀorts.
/uni00A0
Prerequisites
Introduction to Economics
ECON 323 Classical and Marxian Political
Economy
Term: Spring
Credits: 4
The writings of Adam Smith and of Karl Marx had a profound and lasting inﬂuence on the way
people think about the world. The
Industrial Revolution that took place in the interim between the publications of the works of these
two thinkers literally changed the
world. This course focuses on the most important works of Smith and Marx and on the economic
events taking place in eighteenth and
nineteenth century England that continue to aﬀect the way we think and live. The works of other
Classical Economists are also
examined. (Course oﬀered in alternate years.)
Degree Requirements
F2
F3
Prerequisites
Intermediate Microeconomics
Intermediate Macroeconomics
ECON 331 Labor Economics
Term: Fall
Credits: 4
This course covers standard labor economic theory. Topics include market equilibria, the demand
for and supply of labor (including
human fertility, human capital, hours of work, and labor force participation), wage levels and
diﬀerences (including discrimination) and
unions and government as labor market forces. (Course oﬀered in alternate years.)
Prerequisites
Introduction to Economics
ECON 338 European Economic History
Term: Fall
Credits: 4
This course examines the economic transformation that took place in Europe over the long 19th
century, with a major focus on Great Britain's early exceptionalism and the diﬀerent path taken by
continental followers like Germany. Topics to be covered included growth theory; the integration of
national and international markets; agricultural and industrial revolutions; changes in mortality,
fertility, and urbanization; and the evolution of ﬁnancial systems, business organizations, and social
welfare.
Degree Requirements
F2i
F3
Prerequisites
Introduction to Economics
ECON 339 U.S. Economic History
Credits: 4
This course uses the tools of economic analysis to explore the long-run determinants of economic
growth and the implications for policymaking today. Focus is on long-run economic change and
the development of the American economy. Speciﬁc topics include the history and development of
economic institutions, the American colonial experience, early American industrialization, slavery,
the Progressive Era, the Great Depression, and the Southern economy. (Course oﬀered in
alternate years.)
Degree Requirements
F2
F3
Prerequisites
Introduction to Economics
ECON 343 Family Economics
Term: Fall
Credits: 4
This course applies modern economic tools to analyze decisions regarding dating, marriage,
divorce, and fertility. It also addresses public
policies that impact the family, the determinants of women's labor force participation and the
gender wage gap. Empirical studies that
test the validity of the theories of family behavior will be examined.
Prerequisites
Intermediate Microeconomics
ECON 345 Economics of Sports
Credits: 4
This applied economics course explores various aspects of the economics of sports and sports
leagues, with a major focus on empirical
analysis. We will consider a number of topics, including: 1) the business and economics of
professional team sports and sports
broadcasting, 2) analysis of leagues’ competitive balance policies, 3) player relations issues
including analysis of the determinants of
players’ salaries, 4) the public ﬁnance aspects of professional sports teams and stadium ﬁnancing,
and relevant issues in collegiate sports.
(Course oﬀered in alternate years.)
Prerequisites
Introduction to Economics
ECON 349 Environmental and Natural Resource
Economics
Credits: 4
This course applies economic theory to environmental issues and policy. This course analyzes the
operation (and failure) of markets for
resources and environmental goods, and the policies governments use to intervene in such
markets. (Course oﬀered in alternate years.)
Prerequisites
Introduction to Economics
ECON 357 Economics of Risk, Uncertainty, and
Information
Term: Spring
Credits: 4
Economic agents often act in face of uncertain conditions. An individual, for example, can only
assess the probability of a loss when deciding to purchase an insurance policy. Similarly, a ﬁrm
does not know the productivity of potential employees; and, to keep the list short, an auctioneer
usually does not know how much bidders value the object for sale. Despite the intrinsic
uncertainty, the above (as well as related) problems are amenable to economic analysis and in this
course we will learn the tools that make that analysis possible. The careful application of these
tools will help students build important analytical skills, frequently demanded from modern
economists.
Prerequisites
Introduction to Economics
Intermediate Microeconomics
ECON 377 Economics of Education
Term: Spring
Credits: 2
This course uses microeconomic foundations and econometric tools to explore topics related to
the education system and education
policy. Education issues will be examined from both a theoretical and an empirical framework.
Course topics include human capital
theory, signaling, measuring the returns to education, teachers and labor markets, education
inputs, peer eﬀects, and school reform
policies. (Course oﬀered in alternate years.)
Prerequisites
Introduction to Economics
ECON 407 Game Theory
Term: Fall
Credits: 4
The issues of strategic interaction and information asymmetry have come to the forefront of
virtually every functional ﬁeld in economics and business. This course represents an introduction
to how game theory is used as a tool to model and to solve questions of strategy as they arise in a
variety of economic situations and events in the world. Modeling topics to be covered are strategic
and extensive form games, Bayesian decision-making, and evolutionary stability. Possible
applications include bargaining, international collective action, the credibility of macroeconomic
policy, learning, and signaling.
Prerequisites
Intermediate Microeconomics
Applied Calculus
ECON 412 Data Management and Analysis
Credits: 4
This class is an in-depth study of the tools economists use to collect, manage and analyze large
datasets. Students will learn to use advanced data management functions in Stata, R, and other
software packages. We will cover various techniques used to “scrape” and save data from online
sources. The course will introduce a number of methods used to access and analyze data sources
regardless of format (.txt, .csv, .xls, .accdb, .pdf, .html etc..). Students will learn how to write custom
functions in Stata ado ﬁles and VBA applications in Microsoft Oﬃce.
Prerequisites
Statistical Analysis for Economics and Business
ECON 420 Econometrics
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 4
Economic theory is mainly concerned with relations among variables. Econometrics is concerned
with testing the theoretical
propositions embodied in these relations to show how the economy operates, and with making
predictions about the future. Topics
covered in this course include the general linear model, qualitative variables and time series
analysis.
ECON 440 Advanced Econometrics
Term: Spring
Credits: 4
This course builds on the fundamental estimation techniques learned in Economics 420 and
introduces advanced econometric models, particularly for the analysis of panel data. Topics
include ﬁxed eﬀects and random eﬀects, as well as ﬁrst diﬀerencing and diﬀerence-indiﬀerence
models. The use of instrumental variables and two stage least squares estimation will also be
examined as a method of addressing potential endogeneity problems. (Course oﬀered in alternate
years.)
Prerequisites
Econometrics
ECON 460 Internship
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 1-4
Directed internship in law, business, government, economic consulting, or the non-proﬁt sector. To
enroll, students must be approved in
advance by the instructor and the Oﬃce of Career Services. No more than 8 internship credits may
be allowed to count toward the
credits required for graduation. Student interns are expected to keep a regular log of their
activities and write two papers reﬂecting on
their experience. Does not fulﬁll the requirements of the major or minor. Taken pass-fail only.
Prerequisites/Corequisites: Introduction to Economics, Intermediate Microeconomics, Intermediate
Macroeconomics, Statistical Analysis for Economics and Business, or completion of the
requirements for a minor in Economics.
Degree Requirements
F11
ECON 461 Internships
Term: Spring, Fall, Summer
Credits: 1
Directed internship in law, business, government, or the non-proﬁt sector. To enroll, students must
be approved in advance by the
instructor and the Oﬃce of Career Services. (Does not fulﬁll the requirements of the major or minor.
Taken pass-fail only.)
ECON 465 Advanced Topics in Economics
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 1-4
Content of the course varies with instructor. The course may be repeated for credit as long as
topics covered are diﬀerent.
Prerequisites
Introduction to Economics
ECON 486 Senior Seminar in Economics
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 4
Senior Seminar oﬀers students the opportunity to integrate and extend their understanding of the
various areas of economic theory and
policy studied as an Economic Major. The focus of the seminar is development of the ability to
critically appraise analytical models’
appropriateness and usefulness. Students will discuss, present and defend economic policy and
research.
Student must have senior status to enroll.
Prerequisites
Intermediate Microeconomics
Intermediate Macroeconomics
Econometrics
ECON 495 Honors Tutorial
Term: Fall
Credits: 4
Open to candidates for Honors in Economics.
ECON 496 Honors Tutorial
Term: Spring
Credits: 4
Open to candidates for Honors in Economics.
EDUC 160 Teaching English as a Foreign
Language
Term: Fall
Credits: 2
This course is the ﬁrst of a two course sequence to/uni00A0prepare future teachers of English as a foreign
language to teach English to non-native speakers of English in cross-cultural settings, either in the
US or abroad./uni00A0
Degree Requirements
F11
EDUC 161 Teaching English as a Foreign
Language
Term: Spring
Credits: 2
This course is the 2nd course of a two course sequence to/uni00A0prepare future teachers of English as a
foreign language to teach English to non-native speakers of English in cross-cultural settings,
either in the US or abroad./uni00A0
Degree Requirements
F11
Prerequisites
Teaching English as a Foreign Language
EDUC 201 Foundations of Education
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 4
Foundations of Education serves as an introduction to the social, cultural, and philosophical
foundations of education in the United States. It is designed to cover elements of the history,
anthropology, philosophy, sociology, and theory of educational practice in this country, and with
the enduring questions, debates, and conﬂicts that abound regarding teaching, learning, schools,
and society.
Degree Requirements
F8
EDUC 220 Urban Education
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 4
Urban Education focuses on the contemporary practices and theories of teaching and learning in
densely populated high poverty areas and the particular challenges and opportunities such work
presents. Students gain ﬁrst-hand experiences tutoring and observing in urban K-12 classrooms,
apply theory to their work in schools and gain a better understanding of the history and present
contexts of race, poverty, and resilience in urban communities and schools.
Degree Requirements
F9
Prerequisites
Foundations of Education
EDUC 222 Educational Psychology
Term: Spring
Credits: 4
This course explores how students learn and how educational environments can be positive,
aﬃrming learning communities. Course topics include learning theory, learning sciences,
instructional design, and learner diversity. Additionally, the course explores how to create
educational environments responsive to common psychological stressors that impact learning
such as anxiety and trauma.
EDUC 225 African American Educational
Experiences in the United States
Credits: 4
This course provides a historical and social overview of the experiences of African Americans in
education both historically and currently. The course includes historical perspectives such as
antebellum, postbellum, Jim Crowe, and the 1950s/60s Civil Rights Movement. The course will also
delve into the eﬀects of present day educational policy and practices that eﬀect African American
students in US schools with a focus on the structural factors and social contexts that inﬂuence
African American schooling. This course will also explore educational reforms and pedagogical
approaches aimed at improving educational outcomes for African American youth.
/uni00A0
Degree Requirements
F9
Prerequisites
Foundations of Education
EDUC 230 History of US Education
Term: Spring
Credits: 4
This course serves as an introduction to the historical study of education and schooling in the
United States. Focusing especially on the history of curriculum, students will work with primary and
secondary sources to understand the competing aims for education in the United States, the
role(s) that politics plays in what is taught and learned in schools, and the cyclical nature of
educational reform. Finally, the course works to contextualize the history of education with special
attention to the ways schools have been used to oppress marginalized people, including those
who work in them. Students will gain a deeper understanding of the complex and fraught history of
teaching and learning in the U.S. as they wrestle with their own historical inquiries alongside
course texts and themes.
EDUC 240 Urban Education Policy
Term: Spring
Credits: 4
This class addresses the following essential questions: What counts as education policy? Why
does education policy matter? How is education policy made and inﬂuenced? And, what are key
education policy issues today? Students learn about levels of education policy, key federal policies
aﬀecting the current education landscape, the policy process, and current policy debates. Through
this class, students develop the skills to follow education policy news, critically analyze education
policy, and take action to inﬂuence education policy.
Degree Requirements
F8
Teaching/Learning Elective
EDUC 265 Special Topics in Education
Credits: 4
Content may vary from year to year with the instructor. Course may be repeated as long as topics
are diﬀerent. Recent topics have included the Essaying in Education and Social Change and Digital
Media.
Prerequisites
Foundations of Education
EDUC 270 Philosophy of Education
Term: Spring
Credits: 4
This course focuses on the philosophical foundations of education in the United States. Students
engage questions of the purposes of education from pragmatist, feminist, and critical pedagogical
perspectives to develop their own philosophy of teaching and learning. Special attention is given
to philosophical questions of social change and consciousness raising that impact work in schools
and classrooms, as well as the ways identity shapes and informs both educational theory and
practice.
/uni00A0
EDUC 300 Educational Technologies
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 4
This course examines the history, contemporary understanding, social impacts of, and ethical
issues surrounding educational technology. The course also introduces students to research from
the learning sciences that supports improved student learning outcomes, exploring how to
implement this information into classroom use of educational technology. Students will learn about
current educational technologies and practice integrating these tools into their own lesson plans.
Finally, students will equip themselves to prepare K-12 students to develop information literacy and
habits of digital safety.
/uni00A0
Prerequisites
Foundations of Education
EDUC 310 Reading and Writing in Urban
Schools
Term: Fall
Credits: 4
What counts as literacy and what does it mean to become literate? This course will examine these
questions through multiple disciplinary lenses, considering how deﬁnitions of literacy and illiteracy
are tied to issues of equity and justice. It will explore how language and literacy intersect, as well
as the multiple ways literacy is practiced across contexts. It will also compare theories and related
research on how literacy develops across the lifespan. These theoretically-rooted examinations
will then be used to guide our considerations of how literacy is taught and learned in K-12
classrooms.
/uni00A0
Degree Requirements
F2i
Prerequisites
Foundations of Education
EDUC 320 Race, Class, Gender, and Sexuality in
Education
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 4
Race, Class, Gender, and Sexuality in Education explores and investigates the various ways that
race, class, gender, and sexuality interact
and intersect in the context(s) of education. It is designed to cover aspects of each of these social
categories from various perspectives in
order to provide for deep and complex interpretations of social phenomena as they manifest in
educational settings and how these social
categoreis impact work inside and outside of schools.
Degree Requirements
F9
Prerequisites
Foundations of Education
EDUC 330 Education and Immigration
Credits: 4
In this course, students explore current immigration issues and how these issues impact the
educational experiences of immigrant students and their families, particularly in US public schools.
Students will read texts and engage with multimedia resources about citizenship and educational
access, language education and language policies, refugee education and education for students
with interrupted formal education, and engage current topics in immigration. In this course,
students will work with community partners in Memphis who work to meet the unique needs of
immigrant children at school. Students will use their academic readings and interactions with
community partners to consider multiple perspectives, develop informed views on these topics,
communicate their views in a way that exempliﬁes civil discourse, and engage with public
institutions that address these issues.
/uni00A0
Degree Requirements
F9
F11
EDUC 355 Principles of Curriculum and
Instruction
Term: Spring
Credits: 4
This course focuses on the development of the pedagogical knowledge, skills, and dispositions
appropriate for successful teaching in urban schools and provides opportunities for teacher
candidates to apply the principles learned in the course in practice. Humanistic pedagogies such
as multicultural education, culturally responsive teaching, sheltered English instruction, and
teaching for social justice will be a major focus of the course. Special attention is given to the Ten
Core Principles developed by the Interstate New Teacher Assessment and Support Consortium
(INTASC).
Co-Requisite: EDUC 360, Clinical Field Experience
Prerequisites
Foundations of Education
EDUC 360 Clinical Field Experience
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 1-4
Field experiences are designed to give students guided and controlled experiences with
professionals in elementary and secondary schools, and in some cases with community partners.
They are also designed to expand and challenge personal and professional attitudes while
providing personal and professional growth opportunities for prospective teachers and other
professionals in education. Observation and ﬁrst-hand experience within P-12 settings provide
candidates with information and tools that complement classroom study and assist in the
development of pedagogical skills, knowledge, and dispositions necessary for eﬀective teaching.
Secondary licensure candidates will complete three one-credit ﬁeld placements; elementary
candidates will complete four one-credit placements. All ﬁeld experiences for licensure candidates
will occur in Shelby County Schools (SCS). Licensure students enrolled for one credit will complete
a minimum of 60 hours in an assigned SCS classroom. Students in the non-licensure tracks will
complete three one-credit ﬁeld placements; at least one of these must be in a school. Field
placements must be requested and approved by the Director of Licensure and Field Placements
and ﬁnalized in the semester prior to enrollment./uni00A0 Application deadlines are posted on the
Educational Studies website. A minimum grade of B is required for students seeking licensure./uni00A0
Students who earn lower than a B in this course must repeat the course.
Degree Requirements
F11
Prerequisites
Foundations of Education
Principles of Curriculum and Instruction
EDUC 370 Elementary Literacies
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 4
This course, primarily designed for Educational Studies majors pursuing elementary teacher
licensure, will explore, enact, and critically examine diﬀerent approaches to the teaching and
learning of literacy within elementary classrooms (K-5). Through reading and discussion of both
theory and empirical research on literacy pedagogy, students will develop their understandings of
the varied approaches to the teaching of elementary literacy while considering the historical and
political roots of these approaches.
Co-Requisite: EDUC 360
/uni00A0
Prerequisites
Foundations of Education
EDUC 395 Qualitative Methods in the Social
Sciences
Term: Spring
Credits: 4
This course is designed to introduce students to qualitative research and its uses in the social
sciences. It will explore the aims and purposes of qualitative research, including an introduction to
the epistemological, ontological, and methodological diﬀerences between qualitative and
quantitative research. Qualitative methods of data collection and analysis will be a central focus of
the course. Students will learn about qualitative methods of data collection - especially interviews
and observation - through both a review of existing scholarship on the topic and through
assignments where students collect and analyze data through these methods. Students will also
be introduced to methods for qualitative data analysis, including qualitative coding, grounded
theory, and discourse analysis.
Prerequisites: EDUC 201, URBN 201, or permission of the instructor
EDUC 450 edTPA Preparation
Term: Spring
Credits: 1
The edTPA is a national, subject-speciﬁc portfolio-based assessment of teaching performance
adopted by the state of Tennessee for teacher licensure. This course prepares students to
produce an edTPA portfolio that exceeds the state’s requirement of a passing score of 42.
Co-requisite: EDUC 360, Clinical Field Experience
/uni00A0
EDUC 451 Directed Research
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 2 or 4
Students enrolling in the Directed Research course propose a research topic to the Education
Program Committee and once approved,
conduct an independent research on the topic. All directed research projects must be supervised
by a faculty member. Requirements will vary as to the selected topic and will include: regular
meetings with the faculty member, scholarly research, and a ﬁnal written report or curriculum
project. An oral presentation will be made to an appropriate group or class.
Prerequisite; One additional Educational Studies Course
Degree Requirements
F11
Prerequisites
Foundations of Education
EDUC 460 Internship in Education
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 1 - 4
The Internship in Education is arranged on an individual basis and is designed to meet the
identiﬁed needs and/or interests of the student. Students will complete their internships in local
schools or educational settings and will be supervised by the course instructor and an oﬀ-campus
supervisor or clinical educator. Only 4 internship credits may count toward the major or minor./uni00A0
Students will complete a minimum of 40 hours of ﬁeld experience per credit earned./uni00A0 All
internships must be arranged by the Director of Teacher Licensure and Field Placements in the
semester prior to start date./uni00A0 Application deadlines are posted on the Educational Studies website./uni00A0
Students will earn grades in this course.
Degree Requirements
F11
Prerequisites
Foundations of Education
Principles of Curriculum and Instruction
EDUC 485 Senior Seminar
Term: Spring
Credits: 4
Senior Seminar is a topic-based advanced seminar for Educational Studies majors and minors in
their ﬁnal semester of coursework. The
course involves students actively learning, teaching, researching, and engaging in independent
topics of special interest, in consultation
with the professor, as they relate to educational policy and practice based around a central shared
theme. Examples include federal
education policy, culturally relevant pedagogy, multicultural education, and critical pedagogy.
Pre-Requisites: EDUC 201, Educational Studies Major or Minor; Senior standing or permission of
instructor.
EDUC 499 Clinical Student Teaching
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 16
In order to obtain a teaching license in the state of Tennessee, all teacher licensure candidates at
Rhodes are required to complete a semester of student teaching. The state requires that all
candidates complete/uni00A0two distinct 8 week placements in one or two Shelby County Schools.
Candidates will begin their student teaching on the ﬁrst day of the SCS calendar year. Twice a
month, candidates will meet to discuss their experiences and practices with a Rhodes faculty
member. Prior to student teaching, all candidates will be ﬁngerprinted and must pass a criminal
background check. Candidates are also expected to attend all orientations hosted by SCS or and
Rhodes. Clinical Student Teaching Applications can be found on the program website and must be
submitted by the designated deadline. It is highly recommended that candidates meet with the
Director of Teacher Licensure and Field Placements prior to submitting the application. A minimum
grade of B is required of all licensure candidates. Candidates who earn lower than a B in this
course must repeat the course.
Prerequisite: Completion of all teaching licensure coursework
EDUC 500 Educational Technologies
Term: Summer
Credits: 4
This course focuses on the ways in which technology can be integrated into the 21st century
classroom environment. Speciﬁcally, we will examine and practice implementing the ways in which
technology can be used to eﬀectively teach and communicate within and beyond the classroom
and how technology can be integrated into assignments that extend beyond the classroom to
facilitate student learning and engagement. In doing so, teacher candidates will gain experience
integrating technology within lesson plans as a means for satisfying student learning outcomes.
Finally, candidates will develop an understanding of technology-based ethical standards and good
citizenship practices that can be communicated to students and peers.
EDUC 501 Foundations of Urban Education
Term: Summer
Credits: 4
Foundations of Urban Education serves as an introduction to the social, cultural, and philosophical
foundations of urban education in the United States. It is designed to cover elements of the history,
anthropology, philosophy, sociology, and theory of educational practice in this country, and with
the enduring questions, debates, and conﬂicts that abound regarding teaching, learning, schools,
and society.
EDUC 510 Reading and Literacies in Content
Areas
Term: Fall
Credits: 4
All teachers are reading teachers. That is, reading and literacy more broadly are essential skills for
all academic and intellectual activity. This course takes a broad view of literacy, and aims to equip
teacher candidates with a wealth of theories and resources for engaging students in complex
analysis across subject matter areas. Special attention is given to applications of critical theories of
literacy in urban school contexts.
EDUC 511 Understanding Educational Research
and Statistics
Term: Fall
Credits: 4
This course is designed to provide you with a basic understanding of the statistical procedures
and other methods used in educational research and to introduce you to the current trends being
used to measure student achievement and teacher eﬀectiveness. Portions of the course will
require that you compute statistics by hand and use a statistical software package. For all
analyses; however, there will be an emphasis on the interpretation of the statistical results rather
than on rote memorization of mathematical formulas. Successful students will learn both
descriptive and inferential statistics, along with a host of qualitative and interpretive approaches to
educational research in order to craft their own research proposal. Additionally, a portion of the
course is devoted to understanding the instruments, methods, and metrics that are used in the
state of Tennessee to measure student achievement and to evaluate teacher eﬀectiveness.
/uni00A0
EDUC 520 Urban Education, Culture, Identity
Term: Spring
Credits: 4
This course explores and investigates the various ways that culture, identity, race, class, gender,
and sexuality interact and intersect in the context(s) of urban education. It is designed to cover
aspects of each of these social categories from various perspectives in order to provide for deep
and complex interpretations of social phenomena as they manifest in educational settings and how
these social categories impact work inside and outside of schools.
EDUC 550 edTPA Preparation
Term: Spring
Credits: 1
The edTPA is a national, subject-speciﬁc portfolio-based assessment of teaching performance
adopted by the state of Tennessee for teacher licensure. This course prepares students to
produce an edTPA portfolio that exceeds the state’s requirement of a passing score of 42.
/uni00A0
EDUC 555 Curriculum and Instruction in Urban
Schools
Term: Summer
Credits: 4
This course focuses on the development of the pedagogical knowledge, skills, and dispositions
appropriate for successful teaching in urban schools and provides opportunities for teacher
candidates to apply the principles learned in the course in practice. Humanistic pedagogies such
as multicultural education, culturally responsive teaching, sheltered English instruction, and
teaching for social justice will be a major focus of the course.
EDUC 560 Methods-Centric Field Experiences
Term: Fall
Credits: 4
Methods-centric ﬁeld experiences pair teacher candidates with outstanding local urban educators
in an intensive practicum experience wherein candidates observe, participate in, and develop their
own lessons under the guidance of an exemplary master teacher./uni00A0 Candidates complete 20 hours
of ﬁeld experiences each week, and meet one on one with their mentor teachers daily to discuss
methodological choices and approaches to instruction./uni00A0All ﬁeld experiences for licensure
candidates will occur in Shelby County Schools (SCS). Field placements must be approved by the
Director of Licensure and Field Placements. A minimum grade of B is required in this course.
Candidates who earn lower than a B must repeat the course, thus delaying licensure and the
conferring of the degree.
EDUC 585 Capstone (with scholar-in-residence)
Term: Summer
Credits: 4
The ﬁnal capstone course, candidates work with a renowned scholar on subjects selected by the
scholar in residence and work to make connections between their own projects, experiences in
urban classrooms, and the scholarship of the researcher they are working with./uni00A0 The course
concludes with a presentation of research ﬁndings and capstone projects, with comments and
recommendations from the scholar in residence.
EDUC 660 Clinical Practice/Student Teaching
Term: Spring
Credits: 8
In order to obtain a teaching license in the state of Tennessee, all teacher licensure candidates at
Rhodes are required to complete a semester of student teaching. The state requires that all
candidates complete two distinct 8 week placements in one or two Shelby County Schools.
Students will begin their student teaching on the ﬁrst day of the SCS term in the spring. Twice a
month, candidates will meet to discuss their experiences and practices with a Rhodes faculty
member. Prior to student teaching, all candidates will be ﬁngerprinted and must pass a criminal
background check. Candidates are also expected to attend all orientations hosted by SCS and
Rhodes. Clinical Student Teaching Applications can be found on the program website and must be
submitted by the designated deadline. It is highly recommended that candidates meet with the
Director of Teacher Licensure and Field Placements prior to submitting the application. A minimum
grade of B is required in this course. Candidates who earn lower than a B must repeat the course,
thus delaying licensure and the conferring of the degree.
/uni00A0
Prerequisites: Completion of related coursework and EDUC 560.
/uni00A0
/uni00A0
EDUC 684 Thesis Syllabus I
Term: Spring
Credits: 2
This course is intended for Master’s level students to create a Master’s Thesis project and to see it
through to the ﬁrst draft. In this semester, students will select and ﬁnalize a thesis committee,
submit the thesis proposal, make all necessary revisions to the thesis proposal, and produce the
ﬁrst draft of the thesis. Students will work one-on-one with their thesis advisor and the thesis
coordinator to identify times that they will meet and create a plan for communication throughout
the process of completing the Master’s Thesis.
/uni00A0
EDUC 685 Thesis Syllabus II
Term: Summer
Credits: 2
This course is intended for Master’s level students to create a Master’s Thesis project and to see it
through to the ﬁrst draft. In this semester, students will select and ﬁnalize a thesis committee,
submit the thesis proposal, make all necessary revisions to the thesis proposal, and produce the
ﬁrst draft of the thesis. Students will work one-on-one with their thesis advisor and the thesis
coordinator to identify times that they will meet and create a plan for communication throughout
the process of completing the Master’s Thesis.
/uni00A0
Prerequisites
Thesis Syllabus I
EDUC 686 Master's Thesis III
Term: Summer
Credits: 1
This course is intended for Master’s level students to complete their Master’s Thesis project. In this
session, students will defend their thesis before their thesis committee, and make any required
revisions before submitting their ﬁnal draft. Students will work one-on-one with their thesis advisor
and the thesis coordinator to identify times that they will meet and create a plan for communication
throughout the process of completing the Master’s Thesis.
Prerequisites
Thesis Syllabus I
Thesis Syllabus II
ENGL 190 Introductory Topics in Literature
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 4
An introduction to the process of reading critically and writing perceptively about literary works,
through the exploration of speciﬁc topics or questions. Topics for individual sections will vary, and
topics for each upcoming semester can be found through BannerWeb or the English Department
Homepage. Counts toward the English major. May not be repeated for credit. First-year and
sophomore students only.
Degree Requirements
F2i
F4
ENGL 191 Golden Age of Piracy: Histories,
Literature, Legends, and Myths
Credits: 4
The pirates who plundered the ships of the Spanish Main and cruised the coasts of Africa and the
Americas both served and troubled conventional notions of race, gender, economics, law, and
nationality in a period that saw the rise of Empire and the Atlantic slave trade, the American
Revolution, and the wars of the early nineteenth century. The usually criminal and always liminal
status of those who decided to “go upon the account” has attracted the attention of numerous
authors and ﬁlmmakers who have cast them as brave iconoclasts, romantic heroes, and heartless
villains. This class will explore representations of seventeenth and eighteenth-century pirates from
their time to our own. Counts toward the English major.
Degree Requirements
F2i
F4
ENGL 192 Medieval Frame Tales and Story
Collections
Term: Spring
Credits: 4
The frame tale—that is, a framing narrative depicting a series of oral storytelling performances by
the frame’s characters—was popular throughout the medieval period and includes such well-
known works as the Canterbury Tales, the Decameron, and Arabian Nights. This enormously
ﬂexible genre could encompass a vast range of story types, from saints lives and romances to
beast fables and comic fabliaux. Through these and other story collections, this course explores
the compelling power of storytelling in the middle ages and oﬀers modern readers a rich and
vibrant introduction to the diversity of the medieval world. All works are read in modern English
translation. Limited to First Years and Sophomores only.
/uni00A0
Degree Requirements
F2i
F4
ENGL 204 Introduction to Screenwriting
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 4
An introduction to the basic three-act ﬁlm structure. Students will read and view various
screenplays and ﬁlms, and develop their own ﬁlm treatment into a full-length script.
ENGL 206 Creative Publishing: The
Southwestern Review I
Term: Fall
Credits: 2
This is the ﬁrst semester of a two-semester sequence that combines literary study with a practicum
in publishing The Southwestern Review, Rhodes’s campus literary magazine. Students will study
the history of literary magazine publishing in the United States and conduct a survey of
contemporary magazines and topics in literary publishing. Building on this research, students will
then produce The Southwestern Review, including reading submissions, editing and designing the
magazine, developing publicity materials, and planning the campus launch. This course meets
once a week. It is expected that students enrolled in this class will also take ENGL 207 in the
spring semester, which will be oﬀered in the same scheduling block as the fall.
/uni00A0
ENGL 207 Creative Publishing: The
Southwestern Review II
Term: Spring
Credits: 2
This is the second semester of a two-semester sequence that combines literary study with a
practicum in publishing The Southwestern Review, Rhodes’s campus literary magazine. After
studying literary magazine publishing in the United States and various topics in literary publishing,
students will produceThe Southwestern Review, including reading submissions, editing and
designing the magazine, developing publicity materials, and planning the campus launch. This
course meets once a week.
/uni00A0
Prerequisites
Creative Publishing: The Southwestern Review I
ENGL 210 Introduction to Creative Writing
Term: Fall
Credits: 4
This multi-genre course focuses on the craft of creative writing in a workshop setting. Students will
read a variety of texts by contemporary writers, and they will produce their own works of poetry,
ﬁction, and creative nonﬁction.
/uni00A0
/uni00A0
/uni00A0
ENGL 218 Myths and Sagas of Medieval Iceland
Credits: 4
This course focuses on the rich storytelling traditions of medieval Iceland. The endlessly diverse
sagas and eddas introduce readers not only to feats of dragon-slaying heroes, disputes among
Old Norse gods, fantastical tales of giants and Valkyries, and legendary explorations as far as
North America but also to the more everyday aspects of medieval life—foodways, material culture,
healing practices, gender roles, laws and customs, and settlement patterns across Iceland’s
dangerous and beautiful landscape. Alongside our study of these Icelandic texts, we will examine
global perceptions of Vikings in other parts of the medieval world as well as post-medieval lives of
these enduring stories.
Degree Requirements
F2i
F4
ENGL 219 The Global Middle Ages
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 4
This course explores a wide range of medieval literature (all in modern English translation) from
around the world. The focus will be “global” in two senses: our texts take readers on journeys with
medieval heroes, merchants, exiles, pilgrims, and other travelers to far-reaching locations; even
more importantly, these works are cross-cultural in form and content, created within global
contexts and reﬂecting a vast array of inﬂuences from diverse oral and literary traditions. While all
of the stories we will read have origins in the Middle Ages, some continue to be told and
performed in parts of the world even today.
Degree Requirements
F2i
F4
ENGL 220 Topics in Women and Literature
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 4
A study of works written by or about women, this course is an opportunity to explore the distinct
issues that women, their representations, and their writing raise. Possible topics: Women’s
Autobiography, Contemporary Black Women Authors, and others. May be repeated once with
diﬀerent topic.
Degree Requirements
F2i
F4
ENGL 221 The Novel of Manners
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 4
A study of the development of the novel of manners as a genre over the nineteenth and twentieth
centuries in both England and the United States. This course introduces students to the
conventions of the novel of manners and explores the major novelists’ reception and revision of
prior works in this inﬂuential genre. Authors include: Jane Austen, Henry James, and Edith
Wharton.
Degree Requirements
F2i
F4
ENGL 224 Survey of African American Literature
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 4
This course will survey the African American literary tradition from the 1600s to the present, with a
particular focus on how the musings of African Americans capture, engage and critique the
American narrative. Authors may include: Phillis Wheatley, W.E.B. Du Bois, Charles Chesnutt,
Claude McKay, Zora Neale Hurston, Gwendolyn Brooks, Ralph Ellison, Toni Morrison, et cetera.
Degree Requirements
F2i
F4
ENGL 225 Southern Literature
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 4
A study of literature written about the American South, primarily but not exclusively Southern
literature of the 19th and 20th centuries. Authors likely to be studied include William Faulkner,
Robert Penn Warren, Margaret Walker, Flannery O’Connor, Thomas Wolfe, Eudora Welty, and
Ernest J. Gaines.
Degree Requirements
F2i
F4
ENGL 230 Shakespeare
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 4
A survey of Shakespeare’s poems and plays, including sonnets, some ten representative
comedies, histories, and tragedies from his earlier, middle/uni00A0/uni00A0and later periods, and a generically
mixed romance. While the focus will be on literary analysis, the class will also explore the greater
context of Shakespeare, from the historical meanings of words in his texts to the performance of
his works today. This course is designed to provide students with extensive practice in close
textual analysis in preparation for enjoying Shakespeare throughout their lives.
Degree Requirements
F2i
F4
ENGL 235 World Drama
Term: Fall
Credits: 4
An introduction to the critical reading of dramatic texts, and to the various implications of the genre
itself. The stage will be explored not only as the site for the enactment of literary themes but also
as a cultural arena where the representation of cultural values and discourses becomes contested,
subverted, reaﬃrmed, or celebrated. The issues will also be addressed in examining the
translation of theater to ﬁlm.
Degree Requirements
F2i
F4
ENGL 240 Literature and Science
Term: Spring
Credits: 4
"Nature and Nature's laws lay hid in night: God said, Let Newton be! and all was Light."Alexander
Pope, one of the premiere poets of the eighteenth century, intended this epitaph tograce the tomb
of Sir Isaac Newton, one of history's most celebrated natural philosophers.This course will examine
the relationship of literature and science--two areas of knowledgeproduction and intellectual
exploration now commonly thought of as separate and inopposition--from the beginnings of the
Scientiﬁc Revolution in the seventeenth century to theend of the British Enlightenment some two
hundred years later. We will see how changes in“modern” scientiﬁc and literary practice informed,
championed, resisted, and shaped eachother. Readings will be drawn from the work of poets,
playwrights, natural philosophers,essayists and satirists such as Francis Bacon, Robert Hooke,
Thomas Shadwell, MargaretCavendish, John Milton, Alexander Pope, Jonathan Swift, Ephraim
Chambers, and WilliamWordsworth./uni00A0
Degree Requirements
F2i
F4
ENGL 241 History and Criticism of American
Cinema
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 4
This course introduces students to the history of American cinema as art and industry. Although
Hollywood ﬁlm provides the focus, the/uni00A0course may also examine independent cinema. Students
will compose essays that demonstrate their grasp of ﬁlm history and analysis.
Degree Requirements
F5
ENGL 242 World Film
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 4
A chronological survey of world ﬁlm, focusing on the theoretical implications of developing
technologies and changing social mores, and introducing the major critical approaches to a ﬁlmic
text.
Degree Requirements
F5
ENGL 245 Special Topics in Film
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 4
An introductory ﬁlm course open to all students. Special topics may include alternative cinema
(non-ﬁction and experimental cinema); issues of race, gender, and class; genre studies (comedy,
ﬁlm noir, melodrama); and histories of various technologies and media (the advent of sound ﬁlm,
television, video). May be repeated with diﬀerent topic.
Degree Requirements
F5
ENGL 250 Twentieth-Century Modernist Poetry
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 4
An introduction to English-language poetry written between 1900 and 1945, this course will explore
the stylistic and aesthetic features of poetic modernism and related movements such as imagism,
high modernism, regionalism, and the New Criticism. Authors include Robert Frost, T.S. Eliot,
Marianne Moore, Wallace Stevens, W.H. Auden, Edna St. Vincent Millay, and Langston Hughes,
among others.
Degree Requirements
F2i
F4
ENGL 251 Developments in Contemporary
Poetry
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits:  4
An introduction to English-language poetry written after 1945, this course will study developments
in poetic style and sensibility after modernism. Course discussion will address postwar movements
and schools such as confessional poetry, the Beats, the New York school, the Black Arts
movement, and Language poetry, as well as trends in postcolonial and ethnic-American poetry.
Authors include Elizabeth Bishop, Robert Lowell, Gwendolyn Brooks, Philip Larkin, Derek Walcott,
Sylvia Plath, Seamus Heaney, Anne Carson, and Alberto Ríos, among others.
Degree Requirements
F2i
F4
ENGL 255 Introduction to Journalism
Term: Spring
Credits:  4
This course explores journalism as the literature of civic life and teaches the principles of
journalistic writing and storytelling. In addition to reading and discussing examples of
contemporary journalism and its role in democracy, we’ll examine the techniques, ethics, and
purpose of journalism. Students in the course will learn basic journalistic skills (researching,
interviewing, fact-checking, reporting, editing) and will engage in frequent workshops with their
classmates.
Degree Requirements
F2i
Prerequisites
First-Year Writing Seminar
ENGL 260 Survey of British Literature I
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits:  4
Representative works of medieval, Renaissance, and 18th-century literature. Speciﬁc content will
vary with the instructor.
Degree Requirements
F2i
F4
ENGL 261 Survey of British Literature II
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits:  4
Representative works of the 19th and 20th centuries. Speciﬁc content will vary with the instructor.
Degree Requirements
F2i
F4
ENGL 262 Survey of American Literature
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits:  4
Representative works primarily from the nineteenth and early twentieth centuries. Speciﬁc content
will vary with the instructor.
Degree Requirements
F2i
F4
ENGL 264 Studies in African American
Literature
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 4
This course will study representative works within the African American literary tradition. Focusing
on a particular topic or theme, this course will vary by year and might include the following
subjects: African American Literary Movements, Black Science Fiction, Black Women Writers, Black
Poetry or any other specialty topic.
Degree Requirements
F4
F9
ENGL 265 Special Topics
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 4
Recent topics have included the Modern Novella as well as other courses. Content may vary from
year to year with the instructor. Course may be repeated as long as topics are diﬀerent.
Degree Requirements
F2i
F4
ENGL 275 Studies in Anglophone Literature
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 4
An introductory course to English-language literatures from around the world. Theme will vary by
year. Sample subjects: Nationalism and its Discontents, Trauma and Testimony, Literatures of
Migrancy, “Others” and Outsiders in World Literature, Magic Realism, Booker Prizes/Booker Politics,
and Cosmopolitanism. Students will examine Western and non-Western texts from a multiplicity of
critical and transnational perspectives.
Degree Requirements
F2i
F4
ENGL 285 English Seminar
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits:  4
This course assists prospective majors and minors in acquiring the necessary tools for middle- and
upper-division classes in English.
Each seminar will focus on the necessary skills for reading literary texts, the development of critical
argument, and the ability to situate the text in relation to signiﬁcant contexts. Such contexts might
include a text’s historical and cultural circumstances, or its situation within the wider history or
discipline of literary studies. Not open to seniors.
ENGL 290 How to Write: Academic Writing and
the Pedagogies that Support It
Term: Fall
Credits:  4
In this interdisciplinary, community-integrative course, students will engage in the study of
academic composition and writing pedagogies within the ﬁelds of composition and rhetoric,
literacy studies, cognitive psychology, urban studies, and education. Students in the course
develop theoretical frameworks for learning and teaching writing and assist an area public high
school in establishing a peerled writing center.
Degree Requirements
F2i
F11
Prerequisites
First-Year Writing Seminar
First-Year Writing Seminar: Daily Themes
ENGL 300 Intermediate Poetry Workshop
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits:  4
This course focuses on the theory and craft of poetic form. Students will study received forms such
as the sonnet, sestina, and pantoum, as well as hybrid, quotidian, and avant-garde forms. Readings
will include a wide range of poetry as well as essays on poetics, and students will compose poems
in many diﬀerent forms, which will be discussed in regular workshops.
/uni00A0
Prerequisites
Introduction to Creative Writing
ENGL 301 Intermediate Fiction Workshop
Term: Fall
Credits: 4
This course focuses on the craft of ﬁction writing with an emphasis on elements of narrative form
such as point of view, character development, plot, style, tone, and so on. Readings will include a
sampling of literary ﬁction as well as historical and formal studies of narrative form, and students
will produce several short stories to be discussed in regular workshops.
/uni00A0
Prerequisites
Introduction to Creative Writing
ENGL 305 Intermediate Nonﬁction Workshop
Term: Spring
Credits: 4
In this course, students will study literary nonﬁction writing, honing their skills as a reader, a writer,
and a critic. Students will read literary essays as well as essays on craft, and will produce several
nonﬁction pieces, which will be discussed in regular workshops.
/uni00A0
/uni00A0
Prerequisites
Introduction to Creative Writing
ENGL 315 History of the English Language
Term: Spring
Credits: 4
A survey of the historical development of English from the Old English period to the present,
including a consideration of the concept of language, the early origins of English, patterns of
pronunciation and spelling, linguistic diversity through time, and modern dialectal variation. (Course
oﬀered in alternate years.)
/uni00A0
ENGL 316 Advanced Grammar
Term: Fall
Credits: 4
An introduction to the structure and variety of the English language. Students in the course learn
basic linguistic concepts and grammatical terminology, develop an understanding of language use
across diverse social and historical contexts, and explore applications of grammar in education,
writing, and literary analysis.
/uni00A0
Prerequisites: FYWS 151 and one 200-level English course
ENGL 319 Old English Language, Literature, and
Culture
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 4
Introduction to the language, literature, and culture of England until the 11th century. Reading
competence in Old English will be a primary goal, with course materials including a combination of
original-language texts and works in modern English translation. (Course oﬀered in alternate
years.)
Prerequisite: Any 190 or 200 level literature course or permission from instructor.
ENGL 320 Medieval Literature of the 12th-15th
Centuries
Term: Fall
Credits: 4
A study of representative Middle English texts in the original language or continental medieval
literature in translation. Possible topics include The Arthurian World; Medieval Visionary Literature;
Dante in Translation; the Pearl Poet; Women and Medieval Literature; Medieval Folklore, and
others. (Course oﬀered in alternate years.)Prerequisites: Any 200-level literature course or the
permission of the instructor.
Prerequisite: Any 190 or 200 level literature course or permission from instructor.
ENGL 321 Dante's Divine Comedy: Love and the
Afterlife
Credits: 4
This course will focus on the work of Dante Allighieri, the fourteenth-century Italian poet who
translated his vision of the Christian afterlife into his epic poem The Divine Comedy. In addition to
reading most of Dante’s 3-volume work, we will look at some of the works that inﬂuenced Dante’s
vision of the afterlife, including Virgil’s Aeneid and Augustine’s Confessions, as well as a work that
may have inﬂuenced Dante, The Book of Muhammad’s Ladder. We will follow the thread of one of
Dante’s preoccupations: love and it’s relation to the body and to language. All readings and
discussion will be in English.
Pre-requisite: ENGL 190 or 200 level English Course
ENGL 322 Renaissance Poetry and Prose
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 4
A study of 16th and 17th century poetry and prose. Possible authors: Wyatt, Surrey, Sidney,
Marlowe, Spenser, Shakespeare, Jonson, Raleigh, Donne, Marvell, Herbert, Herrick, More, Bacon,
Browne. (Course oﬀered in alternate years.)
Prerequisite: Any 190 or 200 level literature course or permission from instructor.
ENGL 323 Renaissance Drama
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 4
A study of non-Shakespearean drama of the 16th and 17th centuries. Possible dramatists: Marlowe,
Jonson, Webster, Ford, Tourneur, Marston, Beaumont, Fletcher, Massinger. (Course oﬀered in
alternate years.)
Prerequisite: Any 190 or 200 level literature course or permission from instructor.
ENGL 324 Renaissance Law and Literature
Term: Spring
Credits: 4
In this class, we will read a range of literature that explores the complex relationship between law,
justice, and the imagination. We will ask: how does law become an imaginative resource for
authors? How do literary depictions of the law reﬂect back on some of the law’s most diﬃcult
philosophical problems? We will also focus on how law and justice themselves require a literary
imagination. Topics may include: the role of mercy in law and justice; the law’s treatment of
diﬀerence, whether it be religious, ethnic, social, sexual, or gendered; the law’s ability to create (or
destroy) communities; and the surprising connections between the language of law and the
language of love.
/uni00A0
Prerequisite: Any 200-level literature course or permission of the instructor
/uni00A0
ENGL 325 Chaucer
Term: Spring
Credits: 4
A study of representative works by Geoﬀrey Chaucer in Middle English. Supplemental readings
may also include selections from Chaucer’s inﬂuences and contemporaries. (Course oﬀered in
alternate years.)
Prerequisite: Any 190 or 200 level literature course or permission from instructor.
ENGL 332 Advanced Shakespeare Studies
Term: Spring
Credits: 4
Focused exploration of a critical problem in Shakespeare studies. The topic of the class will vary
from semester to semester, but it will regularly include the study of eight to ten works by
Shakespeare as well as critical and historical texts. Sample subjects: The Sonnets; Shakespeare
and Literary Form; Eco-critical Shakespeare; Filmed Shakespearean Adaptations; Shakespeare
and Race.
Prerequisite: Any 190 or 200 level literature course or permission from instructor.
ENGL 335 Milton
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 4
A study of the major poetry and select prose by the learned 17th-century writer John Milton. Milton
composed an extraordinary range of genres. While we will be surveying the full range of these
genres across his career, we will devote much of our attention to Paradise Lost, the major epic of
the English language, based on the story of Genesis yet encompassing profound and still relevant
reﬂections on liberty, rebellion, history, providence, and social hierarchies. (Course oﬀered in
alternate years.)
Prerequisite: Any 190 or 200 level literature course or permission from instructor.
ENGL 336 Literature and Landscape, 1500-1800
Credits: 4
This course investigates two closely related subjects: English literature’s response to changing
ideas of nature and the landscape; and the response of designers of English landscapes and
gardens to literature. Material studied will range from Shakespeare to Wordsworth, including both
the acknowledged literary greats and lesser-known writers of the 17th and 18th centuries.
Prerequisite: Any 190 or 200 level literature course or permission from instructor.
ENGL 340 Restoration Drama
Term: Fall
Credits: 4
A study of the drama produced in England after the restoration of Charles II to the throne in 1660.
Topics include the emergence of the actress on the professional stage, the exceptionally intimate
Restoration playhouses, the inﬂuence of the libertine court on the drama produced in the period,
and such representative genres as satiric comedy and the heroic play as well as the rise of
sentimental comedy in the 1690s and early 1700s. Authors include Dryden, Rochester, Wycherley,
Etherege, Behn, Otway, Cibber, Vanbrugh, Congreve and Farquhar.
Prerequisite: Any 190 or 200 level literature course or permission from instructor.
ENGL 343 Studies in Eighteenth-Century
Literature
Term: Spring
Credits: 4
A course in British poetry, non-ﬁction prose and drama. In a given year, the course might oﬀer
either a complete survey of the period or a thematic focus. Areas of focus would include shifts in
poetic sensibility, the growth of a national consciousness, the role of religion in literature, and the
propagation of print culture. Authors include Montague, Pope, Johnson, Boswell, Burney, Addison,
Steele, and Cowper.
Prerequisite: Any 190 or 200 level literature course or permission from instructor.
ENGL 345 Eighteenth-Century British Fiction
Term: Spring
Credits: 4
The eighteenth century saw the emergence of the novel in its modern form. As a result
eighteenth-century novels are all, in diﬀerent ways, experimental, testing and developing the
strategies of narration that characterize realist ﬁction. The course will study a range of novels, as
well as debates among critics who have tried to account for the rise of the novel during this period
in history. Readings may include work by Defoe, Richardson, Fielding, Smollett, Burney, Radcliﬀe,
and Austen.
Prerequisite: Any 190 or 200 level literature course or permission from instructor.
ENGL 350 Romantic Poetry and Prose
Term: Fall
Credits: 4
A course in British poetry, drama, ﬁction and non-ﬁction prose between 1780s and 1830s. Particular
prominence will be given to historical and cultural changes in the period--movements of revolution
and reaction--and the emergence or redeﬁnition of aesthetic concepts. Writers include Barbauld,
Godwin, Wollstonecraft, Smith, Wordsworth, Coleridge, Byron, Shelley, Keats, and De Quincey.
Prerequisite: Any 190 or 200 level literature course or permission from instructor.
ENGL 351 Victorian Poetry and Prose
Term: Spring
Credits:  4
The period 1837-1901 (the reign of Victoria) witnessed the industrial transformation of Britain as well
as the often bitterly contested expansion of Britain’s global empire. Poets and essayists addressed
this changing social landscape, and an expanding reading public often turned to their work for
guidance in a changing world. This course will study major poems and essays of the period.
Possible authors include Tennyson, Carlyle, Mill, Arnold, Elizabeth Barrett Browning, Robert
Browning, Christina Rossetti, Ruskin, Eliot, Pater, Wilde.
Prerequisite: Any 190 or 200 level literature course or permission from instructor.
ENGL 355 Nineteenth-Century British Fiction
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits:  4
A study of major works, with particular attention to changes in reading habits and publishing
practices that altered the shape of the novel during this period. Readings may include work by
Austen, Scott, Dickens, Brontë, Gaskell, Thackeray, Collins, Eliot, Hardy, and Gissing.
Prerequisite: Any 190 or 200 level literature course or permission from instructor.
ENGL 359 Early American Literature
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits:  4
An advanced study of American literature from its beginnings to 1800. Through a diverse range of
texts, the course will explore how European colonization, Puritanism, and the Enlightenment
shaped the development of American cultural thought and literary production. Course discussions
may address the heterogeneous and shifting cultures of early America, the response to British rule
and cultural hegemony, and the consolidation of national identity. Readings could include
narratives of discovery and exploration, Puritan writings, Native American voices, early American
poetry, slave and captivity narratives, works of the Enlightenment, and the early American novel.
Prerequisite: Any 190 or 200 level literature course or permission from instructor.
ENGL 360 American Romanticism
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 4
An advanced study of US poetry, ﬁction and non-ﬁction produced between 1820 and 1875. The
course will trace the inﬂuence on the American imagination of British Romanticism and American
Transcendentalism and also chart the rise of a distinctly American literary tradition. Course
discussion will also address the political, historical, and cultural forces that shaped the writing of
the period, as well as consider the lingering eﬀects of Puritanism and Enlightenment philosophy.
Authors may include Emerson, Thoreau, Melville, Hawthorne, Douglass, Whitman, Dickinson, and
Stowe.
Prerequisite: Any 190 or 200 level literature course or permission from instructor.
ENGL 361 American Realism and Naturalism
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 4
An advanced study of literature - primarily novels and short stories - produced in post-Civil War
America. Prompted by post-war disillusionment and the rapid and dramatic changes in American
culture, this period saw the concurrent and overlapping emergence of realism and naturalism as
well as an increased interest in a regionalist aesthetic. Authors may include Twain, Howells,
Chesnutt, James, Jewett, Chopin, Crane, Norris, and Dreiser.
Prerequisite: Any 190 or 200 level literature course or permission from instructor.
ENGL 362 American Modernism
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 4
An advanced study of important US poetry, drama, ﬁction, and non-ﬁction produced between 1900
and 1945. The course will examine these works within the cultural dominant of modernism, which
sought to articulate the urgent sense of dislocation and contemporaneity that characterized early
twentieth-century experience. The course will ground its exploration of modernist stylistic and
aesthetic innovations within the context of the prevailing philosophical, political, historical, and
cultural realities of the period. Authors could include Frost, Dos Passos, Eliot, Fitzgerald,
Hemingway, Stevens, Cather, Hughes, Faulkner, and Welty.
Prerequisite: Any 190 or 200 level literature course or permission from instructor.
ENGL 363 Topics in Twentieth-Century British
Literature
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 4
An in-depth examination of a speciﬁc topic pertaining to British literature and/or culture of the
twentieth and twenty-ﬁrst centuries. Topics may focus on speciﬁc periods, movements, genres or
authors. Sample topics: Modernist Poetry, Multicultural British Literature, Postmodern British
Literature, British Cultural Studies, Joseph Conrad, Virginia Woolf. May be repeated with diﬀerent
topic.
Prerequisite: Any 190 or 200 level literature course or permission from instructor.
ENGL 364 Advanced African American
Literature
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 4
The advanced course in African American literature will oﬀer the student a focused study of a
particular theme or topic within the African American literary tradition. In addition to literary works,
this course will engage historical and critical pieces. Varying by year, subjects might include:
African American Literary Theory, African American Satire, Black Existentialist Literature, the
Harlem Renaissance, the Black Arts Movement, African American Modernism/Postmodernism, or
any other focused examination of a topic or genre within African American literature.
Prerequisite: Any 190 or 200 level literature course.
Degree Requirements
F9
Africana Studies Elective
Teaching/Learning Elective
ENGL 365 Twentieth-Century British Fiction
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 4
A study of major works, with particular attention to literary modernism—its rise, reception, and
wake—within the context of its cultural and socio-historical frameworks. Readings may include
work by Conrad, Ford, Forster, Greene, Joyce, Lawrence, Rhys, Waugh, Woolf, and other authors
from more recent decades.
Prerequisite: Any 190 or 200 level literature course or permission from instructor.
ENGL 366 James Joyce's Dubliners in Context
Credits:  4
This course will focus on James Joyce’s Dubliners (1914), the modernist Irish author’s masterful
collection of ﬁfteen stories set in the Irish metropolis at the turn of the last century. These stories—
which anatomize and probe Irish history and national identity, as well as key social institutions
(family, church, school, and pub)--will be explored within the context of relevant political, literary,
and biographical matrices, as well as within the context of other works by Joyce and other authors.
The course will incorporate key critical readings/debates as well as selected plays, ﬁlms, poems,
and popular songs.
Pre-requisite: ENGL 190 or 200 level English course
ENGL 370 American Postmodernism and
Beyond
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits:  4
This course will examine ﬁction, poetry, and drama published between the years following World
War II to the present day. The works will be read against the backdrop of the decline of modernism
and European colonialism and the subsequent rise of postmodernism and its many attendant sub-
movements. Authors could include Lowell, Ellison, Mailer, Bellow, Sexton, Pynchon, Barth,
O’Connor, Updike, Oates, Roth, Morrison, and Wallace.
Prerequisite: Any 190 or 200 level literature course or permission from instructor.
ENGL 375 Topics in Postcolonial Literature
Term: Spring
Credits:  4
This course investigates crucial contemporary issues in postcolonial literature and theory. Topics
will vary by year, though each will explore various voices, relations, and movements that comprise
the literature of the postcolonial Other. Sections might center on speciﬁc geopolitical regions (i.e.
literatures of the Caribbean, Africa or South Asia), groups of writers (ie, postcolonial women and
literature), genre (i.e. postcolonial poetry) or thematic concerns. Other sections might provide an
overall introduction to postcolonial texts and theory. May be repeated with diﬀerent topic.
Prerequisite: Any 190 or 200 level literature course or permission from instructor.
ENGL 380 Topics in Literary Study
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 4
Exploration of special topics at a level designed for English majors. Content will vary from year to
year. May be repeated with diﬀerent topic.
Prerequisite: Any 190 or 200 level literature course or permission from instructor.
ENGL 381 Advanced Topics in Film
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 4
The focused exploration of a topic or genre that ties a body of ﬁlms together in order to pursue
issues of ﬁlm criticism and theory in depth. Such topics as the following may be considered:
gender and ﬁlm, race and ﬁlm, ﬁlm adaptation, American genre ﬁlms, the ﬁlm auteur, screenplay
writing. Includes the study of critical texts. May be repeated with diﬀerent topic.
Prerequisite: Any 200-level ﬁlm class or permission from instructor.
ENGL 385 Junior Seminar: Critical Theory and
Methodology
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 4
An examination of major developments in literary criticism and critical theory, designed to prepare
students for advanced research. To be taken during the fall or spring semester of the junior year.
(Those studying abroad may take the course in the fall of senior year.)
Prerequisites
English Seminar
ENGL 399 Tutorial for Honors Candidates
Term: Spring
Credits: 1
Junior English majors wishing to read for honors are required to enroll in a preparatory tutorial in
the spring semester. Although required for honors, enrollment in this course does not guarantee
acceptance into the Honors Program.
ENGL 400 Advanced Poetry Workshop
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 4
In this capstone workshop, students will work to develop their own poetry while also studying and
discussing the long history of poetic theory. Weekly readings will include recent collections by a
variety of contemporary poets. The course will culminate in a substantial portfolio of poetry.
/uni00A0
Prerequisites
Intermediate Poetry Workshop
ENGL 401 Advanced Fiction Workshop
Term: Spring
Credits: 4
In this capstone workshop, students will work to develop their own ﬁction while examining short
ﬁction from all periods of the preceding century, placing their own writing within its historical
context. The course will culminate in a substantial portfolio of ﬁction that may be a story sequence,
a novella, or some other assemblage.
Prerequisites
Intermediate Fiction Workshop
ENGL 405 Advanced Nonﬁction Workshop
Term: Spring
Credits: 4
In this capstone workshop, students will continue their study of literary nonﬁction writing, honing
their skills as a reader, a writer, and a critic. Students will read literary essays as well as essays on
craft, and will produce a substantial portfolio of literary nonﬁction.
/uni00A0
Prerequisites
Intermediate Nonﬁction Workshop
ENGL 460 Internship
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 3, 4
A supervised learning experience, typically in the greater Memphis community, in which students
apply analytical and writing skills learned in the classroom to ﬁelds such as communications,
business, journalism, not-for-proﬁt organizations, grant-writing, marketing and social media, and
other professional arenas. The program of professional work will be devised by the student, the
internship supervisor, and the faculty advisor for internships. All internships must be approved by
the chairperson of the department. Additional course work will consist of regular journal entries, a
ﬁnal paper, and a portfolio of work written for the internship. ENGL 460 is a graded internship and
is taken for 3-4 credits.
/uni00A0
Degree Requirements
F11
ENGL 461 Internship
Term: Spring, Fall, Summer
Credits: 1 or 2
A supervised learning experience, typically in the greater Memphis community, in which students
apply analytical and writing skills learned in the classroom to ﬁelds such as communications,
business, journalism, not-for-proﬁt organizations, grant-writing, marketing and social media, and
other professional arenas. The program of professional work will be devised by the student, the
internship supervisor, and the faculty advisor for internships. All internships must be approved by
the chairperson of the department. Additional course work will consist of brief journal entries and a
portfolio of work written for the internship. ENGL 461 is a Pass/Fail course and can be taken for 1-2
credits.
Degree Requirements
F11
ENGL 465 Tutorial in One-to-One Writing
Pedagogy
Term: Fall
Credits:  2
Theoretical and applied study of one-to-one writing instruction.
ENGL 485 Senior Research Seminar
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits:  4
A focused exploration of special topics or critical problems in literary study culminating in the
preparation of an independent research essay and a major oral presentation of the research.
Topics chosen by the instructor will vary from section to section and may focus on major authors,
distinct literary genres or movements, historical contexts, and/or signiﬁcant themes. Topics will be
published annually; rising seniors will select preferred topics. For further information, see the
English Department Chair. Enrollment by permission only.
ENGL 495 Honors Tutorial
Term: Fall
Credits:  4-8
Satisﬁes the Senior Paper requirement. For seniors only.
Prerequisites
Tutorial for Honors Candidates
ENGL 496 Honors Tutorial
Term: Spring
Credits:  4-8
Satisﬁes the Senior Paper requirement. For seniors only.
Prerequisites
Tutorial for Honors Candidates
ENVS 106 Introductory Topics in Environmental
Science
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 4
This course oﬀers students an introduction to various topics in the ﬁeld of environmental sciences.
Topics vary with instructor.
ENVS 107 Environment, Conservation, and
Policy Issues
Term: Fall
Credits: 4
This course will oﬀer an introduction to the most inﬂuential factors shaping the ecosystems and
their conservation looking at the global, regional and local factors that determine the climates and
the contrasting ecosystems that can be found in Ecuador. The course includes several ﬁeld visits
to the Ecuadorian Amazon (Tiputini Biodiversity Station) and the Galapagos Islands, thus, allowing
students to experience ﬁrst-hand current topics of conservation and policy issues, while discussing
the main environmental challenges associated with the conservation of natural ecosystems in
tropical developing countries. Additionally, this course reviews the environmental issues facing
contemporary Ecuador in the context of a transforming global reality. We will look at speciﬁc
environmental issues that are of concern for Ecuador and the region including, the oil industry and
indigenous communities in the Amazon Basin, aquaculture, and shrimp farming, introduced
species, large scale ranching and deforestation, ﬁsheries, and the management of fragile marine
ecosystems such as the Galapagos. We will investigate possible solutions that consider political
and ecological pressures, perspectives of indigenous populations, environmentalists, the
governments, NGOs, as well as international investors and multinational companies. It all revolves
around this little but diverse country.
ENVS 108 Tropical Biology
Term: Fall
Credits: 4
This course surveys the diversity of tropical ecosystems and examines the ecological and
evolutionary processes that shape them. Through lectures, readings, discussions, and guest
speakers, the course examines foundational theories and major themes in tropical biology,
including species diversity, adaptations and coevolution, community structure, biogeography, and
conservation challenges. The course uses Ecuador as a model to illustrate general principles and
contemporary issues in tropical ecology and conservation.
By the end of this course, you’ll be able to:
1. Identify major tropical ecosystems, describe their climatic and biological characteristics, and
explain the fundamental reasons tropical systems diﬀer from temperate ones.
2. Understand the ecological and evolutionary mechanisms that shape patterns of species
diversity and explain why there are so many species in the tropics.
3. Critically examine the assumptions and empirical evidence supporting or rejecting hypotheses
that have guided our understanding of tropical ecosystems.
4. Understand the major threats to tropical ecosystems and how ecological principles can inform
conservation eﬀorts.
ENVS 111 Physical Geology
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 4
Introduction to the composition and structure of the earth and processes that create modern
landscapes. Topics include plate tectonics, the
formation of minerals and rocks, weathering, erosion, and crustal deformation. Three hours of
lecture and three hours of lab per week,
plus optional week-end ﬁeld trips.
Degree Requirements
F7
ENVS 120 Introduction to Earth and
Atmospheric Science
Term: Fall
Credits: 4
This course provides an introduction to the Earth’s physical landscape including climate, landforms,
and vegetation, and the processes that link them. The ﬁrst section of the course examines
atmospheric processes and the distribution and characteristics of the Earth’s climatic regions. The
second section of the course focuses on processes at or near the Earth’s surface and gives
special attention to
volcanic and tectonic landforms; weathering and erosion; ﬂuvial, aeolian and glacial processes;
and the landforms they produce. The main objective of the course is for students to gain a basic
understanding of the interaction between climate and the physical and biological systems at the
earth’s surface.
Degree Requirements
F7
ENVS 150 Environment and Society
Term: Fall
Credits:  4
This course is an introduction to contemporary environmental issues. Topics may include over-
population pressures, climate change, energy consumption, water availability, biological diversity
decline, sustainability practices, agricultural land-use, and global environmental governance,
among other major global environmental challenges. Faculty from the natural sciences and
humanities/social sciences in the Environmental Studies and Sciences program sometimes team-
teach this course. Using an interdisciplinary approach, students will learn the science behind these
issues, as well as the economic, political and cultural factors that inﬂuence environmental change
and shape our responses to it. This course is required for both the Environmental Studies and
Environmental Sciences majors and minors.
ENVS 170 Rocky Mountain Field Reserch
Term: Maymester
Credits:  4
This ﬁeld course, taught by faculty at the Teton Science Schools in Jackson Hole, Wyoming, is
focused on community ecology of the Greater Yellowstone Ecosystem (GYE). This course also
contains a substantial research component in which students will participate in a long-standing
TSS program in order to develop skills in research design and data collection. Then students will
create and complete their own research projects. The course will connect students with the other
programming areas of Teton Science Schools as well as other professionals in the environmental
science ﬁeld in the context of professional opportunities after college. This course fulﬁlls the
Environmental Experience required for Environmental Studies and Sciences majors and minors.
Requires separate application process and payment of additional tuition.
Degree Requirements
F7
F11
ENVS 205 Selected Topics in Environmental
Studies
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 4
Introduction to selected topics in Environmental Studies. Topics vary with instructor. May be
repeated for credit when topics vary. Not
oﬀered every year.
ENVS 206 Selected Topics in Environmental
Sciences
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 4
Introduction to selected topics in Environmental Sciences. Topics vary with instructor. May be
repeated for credit when topics vary.
Course oﬀering may or may not have a laboratory credit associated with the class. Not oﬀered
every year. Course may include the
equivalent of 3 hours of laboratory each week.
ENVS 207 Linking the Local to the Global
Term: Fall
Credits: 4
This course examines local environmental challenges in Cuenca, Ecuador and nearby locations.
Students will learn about topics such as gold mining and its eﬀects on water quality, eco-
agricultural sustainable food production, corn sovereignty (small production vs. large agro-
industrial production), and invasive species of ﬂora and fauna (e.g. introduction of trout in Cajas).
Experiential learning will be a signiﬁcant element of the course and students will regularly visit local
communities, NGOs, museums, governmental oﬃces, etc. so that students can learn from those
who are most aﬀected by these issues. Additionally, students will observe local community
members’ engagement in political activism, artistic expression, and cultural practices that illustrate
their experiences with the environment and their eﬀorts to pursue alternative ways of interfacing
with the natural world.
ENVS 211 Geomorphology
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits:  4
This course examines the origin of landforms and their relationship to underlying geology and
geologic history with emphasis on the
processes acting on the Earth"s surface that include active tectonics, weathering, mass-wasting,
karst, rivers, deserts, coastal, and
glaciation.
Prerequisites
Physical Geology
ENVS 220 Physical Geography of the
Southeastern United States
Term: Spring
Credits:  4
This course examines the physical landscapes in the southeastern United States. This is the non-
glaciated, humid-subtropical region of
eastern North America that includes the southern Appalachian Mountains, Coastal Plain, Interior
Low Plateaus, and the Ozark and
Ouachita Mountains. The primary focus is on the geological setting, geomorphic features, climate,
soils, and vegetation. Students will
examine the interrelationships of these factors in addition to human activities that shape the
landscape.
ENVS 260 Aquatic Ecosystem Analysis
Term: Fall
Credits:  4
This courses is taught at the Semester in Environmental Sciences (SES) Program at the Marine
Biological Laboratory in Woods Hole, Massachusetts. The course covers aquatic ecosystems from
the point of view of biogeochemistry and important ecological processes. In the ﬁeld and
laboratory students will start out in the ﬁrst eight weeks of the core courses with an intensive study
focused mainly on local ecosystems –ponds and estuaries within the Waquoit Bay watershed
adjacent to Vineyard Sound, West Falmouth Harbor on Buzzards Bay, and grassland, forest and
suburban sites in the towns of Mashpee and Falmouth, MA. This course may count as an upper-
level natural science elective. Requires separate application process.
ENVS 270 Terrestrial Ecosystem Analysis
Term: Fall
Credits: 4
This courses is taught at the Semester in Environmental Sciences (SES) Program at the Marine
Biological Laboratory in Woods Hole, Massachusetts. The course covers terrestrial ecosystems
from the point of view of biogeochemistry and important ecological processes./uni00A0 In the ﬁeld and
laboratory students will start out in the ﬁrst eight weeks of the core courses with an intensive study
focused mainly on local ecosystems. Terrestrial ﬁeldwork is conducted in grassland, forest and
suburban habitats in the Crane Wildlife Management Area in Mashpee and other sites in Falmouth.
The sites are chosen to represent a disturbance chronosequence and allow comparison of
ecosystems processes, such as primary production and nitrogen mineralization, and properties
such as standing stock, plant diversity and soil carbon and nitrogen content across the disturbance
gradient. Requires separate application process.
ENVS 325 Advanced GIS and Remote Sensing
Term: Spring
Credits: 4
This course focuses on the analysis of spatial data using models, spatial statistics, and remotely-
sensed data sets. There will be an emphasis on real-world applications to research topics in
multiple disciplines including, but not limited to, environmental studies, environmental science,
urban studies, conservation, ecology, public health, and anthropology.
/uni00A0
Prerequisites
Geographic Information Systems (GIS)
ENVS 450 Independent Research Project
Term: Fall
Credits: 4
This research project is conducted at the Semester in Environmental Sciences (SES) Program at
the Marine Biological Laboratory in Woods Hole, Massachusetts. As part of the SES Program,
students conduct research on a project of their choosing. The project gives students a chance to
work independently, although they are supported by a Principal Investigator at the MBL
Ecosystems Center or MBL Bay Paul Center. Students have access to Ecosystems Center facilities
and equipment as well as access to MBL ﬁeld sites such as the Harvard Forest LTER or Plum Island
Ecosystems LTER. SES students present their projects in a formal symposium before their
classmates and the Center’s scientiﬁc staﬀ . Requires separate application process.
ENVS 451 Research
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 1-4
Qualiﬁed students may conduct original laboratory, ﬁeld research, or independent study under a
faculty member’s supervision. A student
may use four credits of research to satisfy one of the upper-level requirements in Environmental
Science, or as one of the elective
requirements in Environmental Studies. Students may earn a maximum of four credits for ENVS 451
and 452. Interested students should
consult the appropriate ENVS faculty member. With approval of the director of the Environmental
Studies and Sciences program, this
course may fulﬁll the Environmental Experience required for Environmental Studies and Sciences
majors and minors.
ENVS 452 Research
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 1-4
Qualiﬁed students may conduct original laboratory, ﬁeld research, or independent study under a
faculty member’s supervision. A student
may use four credits of research to satisfy one of the upper-level requirements in Environmental
Science, or as one of the elective
requirements in Environmental Studies. Students may earn a maximum of four credits for ENVS 451
and 452. Interested students should
consult the appropriate ENVS faculty member. With approval of the director of the Environmental
Studies and Sciences program, this
course may fulﬁll the Environmental Experience required for Environmental Studies and Sciences
majors and minors.
ENVS 460 Internship
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 1-4
The Environmental Studies and Sciences internship enables students to make connections
between what they have learned in the classroom and the world around them by applying their
knowledge to real-world settings. Interns can work with a variety of local environmental agencies
or organizations. Students must be approved by the Oﬃce of Career Services and have the
permission of the Director of the Environmental Studies and Sciences program. This course fulﬁlls
the Environmental Experience required for Environmental Studies and Sciences minors.
Degree Requirements
F11
ENVS 486 Senior Seminar
Term: Spring
Credits: 4
This senior capstone experience allows Environmental Studies and Environmental Sciences majors
to make interdisciplinary connections
between topics and themes which they have studied throughout their coursework. Assignments
may include substantial reading, research
projects, and oral presentations.
ENVS 495 Honors Tutorial
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 4-8
Open to candidates for Honors in Environmental Studies and Sciences. Includes supervised
honors research in an Environmental Studies
or Environmental Sciences ﬁeld of study.
ENVS 496 Honors Tutorial
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 4-8
Open to candidates for Honors in Environmental Studies and Sciences. Includes supervised
honors research in an Environmental Studies
or Environmental Sciences ﬁeld of study.
FREN 101 Elementary French
Term: Fall
Credits:  4
Fundamentals of the language including pronunciation, grammar, reading, writing, and speaking.
FREN 102 Elementary French
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits:  4
A continuation of 101. Additional fundamentals of the language including pronunciation, grammar,
reading, writing, and speaking.
FREN 141 Topics in the Francophone World
Term: Spring
Credits:  4
Intensive study of some aspect of French and/or Francophone culture and literature. No prior
knowledge of French is necessary: all
works are read in English.
FREN 154 African Literatures of French
Expression in Translation
Term: Fall
Credits:  4
An introduction to the reading and analysis of African literatures written in French. The course
examines identity/otherness, “race,” cultural hegemony, oral literatures, gender-related issues, and
post-colonialism. No prior knowledge of French is necessary: All works are read and discussed in
English. Open to seniors with permission of instructor only.
Degree Requirements
F4
F9
FREN 200 Intensive French
Term: Summer
Credits: 4
Immersion-style French language study at the intermediate level, in a Francophone country. May
be used to satisfy the college’s
proﬁciency requirement in foreign languages.
Degree Requirements
F10
F11
Prerequisites
Elementary French
FREN 201 Intermediate French
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 4
Continued practice and acquisition of the basic language skills: listening, reading, speaking,
writing, and cultural proﬁciency.
Degree Requirements
F10
Prerequisites
Elementary French
FREN 202 French and Francophone
Connections
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 4
Enhanced practice and acquisition of linguistic and cultural skills. Particular attention is placed on
the/uni00A0discussion of literary and cultural texts, and on exploration of current topics in the French-
speaking world.
Prerequisites
Intermediate French
FREN 301 Literary Analysis Through Written
Expression
Term: Fall
Credits: 4
This course develops the ability to read critically and write substantial analytical essays in French.
Introduction to literary analysis and
advanced grammar review.
Degree Requirements
F2i
Prerequisites
French and Francophone Connections
FREN 305 Intensive French
Term: Summer
Credits: 4
Immersion-style French language study beyond the intermediate level, in a Francophone country.
Counts as one elective course beyond the three core courses in the French minor.
Degree Requirements
F11
Prerequisites
French and Francophone Connections
FREN 306 Conversation Practicum
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 1
Emphasis on oral expression and listening comprehension. Small group format. May be repeated
once for credit with a diﬀerent
instructor or topic. Recommended in conjunction with French 301.
Prerequisites
French and Francophone Connections
FREN 308 French and Francophone Cultural
Heritage
Term: Summer
Credits:  4
Intensive French language study at the advanced level in a Francophone country, supplemented
by an in-depth investigation of a major
aspect of that culture’s civilization. Research paper and formal oral presentation. Counts as one
course towards the major in French.
Degree Requirements
F11
Prerequisites
Literary Analysis Through Written Expression
FREN 317 Modern France
Credits:  4
Life in France and the Francophone world. French readings on contemporary society, lifestyles,
values, art and fashion, commerce, and
advertising. Readings in leading French newspapers, periodicals, and on the Internet. Research
project.
Prerequisites
French and Francophone Connections
FREN 320 Studies in the Francophone World
Credits:  4
Addressing broad questions of cultural exchange, postcolonial identies, and the diversity of the
francophone world, this course will take varied thematic approaches and regional focuses (such as
North and Sub-Saharan Africa, the Caribbean, Quebec, Louisiana.) These themes and regions will
be studies through various media such as music, ﬁlm, literature, and historical texts.
Prerequisites
French and Francophone Connections
FREN 321 French Society from the Middle Ages
to the Revolution
Term: Spring
Credits:  4
Survey of the historical, intellectual, and artistic forces that shaped French society from the Middle
Ages to the fall of the Ancien
Régime in 1789.
Degree Requirements
F2i
F3
Prerequisites
French and Francophone Connections
FREN 322 French Society from Napoleon to the
21st Century
Term: Spring
Credits:  4
Survey of the social, political, intellectual, and artistic changes that have created modern French
society and its contemporary issues.
Degree Requirements
F3
Prerequisites
French and Francophone Connections
FREN 323 Survey of French Literature Through
the Revolution
Term: Spring
Credits:  4
A survey of selected texts from the Middle Ages, Renaissance, classical period and the
enlightenment. this course familiarizes students with key literary texts through close textual reading
and analysis.
/uni00A0
Degree Requirements
F4
Prerequisites
French and Francophone Connections
FREN 324 Survey of Literature Since the
Revolution
Term: Fall
Credits: 4
A survey of selected works from the nineteenth, twentieth and twenty-ﬁrst centries./uni00A0 This course
familiarizes students with key literary texts through close textual readings and analysis.
Students are advised to take French 320, 321 or 322 prior to French 324.
Degree Requirements
F4
Prerequisites
Literary Analysis Through Written Expression
FREN 332 Studies in the French Theatre
Term: Fall
Credits: 4
Plays by representative French dramatists from the French classical period to the present.
/uni00A0
Degree Requirements
F5
Prerequisites
French and Francophone Connections
FREN 334 French and Francophone Cinema
Term: Spring
Credits: 4
A study of prominent directors and movements of French and Francophone cinema, this course
emphasizes techniques and themes of
French and Francophone ﬁlmmaking and may include the New Wave and other movements.
Taught in English. Counts toward the Film
Studies minor.
/uni00A0
Degree Requirements
F5
FREN 335 Special Topics in French Fiction
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 4
Selected readings and exporatino of a theme linking texts through several centuries./uni00A0May be
repeated for credit with a diﬀerent topic.
/uni00A0
Prerequisites
French and Francophone Connections
FREN 336 Contemporary French Literature
Term: Fall
Credits: 4
Focusing on a particular theme, the course examines the developments associated with
contemporary issues in French culture and society
as they are represented in French literature and ﬁlm from the 1970s to the present.
Prerequisites
French and Francophone Connections
FREN 337 French Language Studies
Credits: 1-4
Special studies in contemporary French usage. Focus on practical analysis of the French language.
/uni00A0
Prerequisites
Literary Analysis Through Written Expression
FREN 337 French Language Studies
Credits: 1-4
Special studies in contemporary French usage. Focus on practical analysis of the French language.
FREN 340 Introduction to Translation
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 4
Emphasis on/uni00A0strategies of translation. Students will be trained in a variety of techniques to translate
accurately and
idiomatically from French into English and from English into French.
/uni00A0
Prerequisites
Literary Analysis Through Written Expression
FREN 354 African Literatures in French
Term: Spring
Credits: 4
Examines the origins and development of sub-Saharan African literatures written in French.
Emphasis on the origins and dynamics of the
Négritude movement, postcolonial theories and literatures, and the emergence of women’s voices
in literature.
/uni00A0
/uni00A0
Degree Requirements
F9
Prerequisites
Literary Analysis Through Written Expression
FREN 355 (Im)migration in France:
Contemporary Representations and Debates
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 4
This course explores the diversity of France through its immigrant population (including but not
limited to North African, West African, and Caribbean, as well as second and third generation
immigrants). After discussing the history and composition of immigration in France, debates around
national identity and integration vs. assimilation, we will look at cultural production as well as
oﬃcial policy pertaining to migration. We will examine visual and discursive rhetorical strategies
used in ﬁlms and other media to represent ethnic, cultural, and religious minorities, discrimination,
secularism, national education, and women’s rights. We will consider questions of space and urban
environments in France and contextualize current French and European laws regarding migrant
camps in northern France. Texts to include essays, novels, short stories, ﬁlms, music, photography,
and street art.
Prerequisites: French 320, 321 or 322, and 323 or 324.
FREN 441 Special Topics in French Studies
Credits: 4
Intensive study of some aspect of French literature, culture, or linguistics.
FREN 442 Special Topics in French Studies
Credits: 4
Intensive study of some aspect of Francophone literature, culture, or linguistics.
FREN 486 Senior Seminar
Term: Fall
Credits: 4
An independent research and writing project designed to result in an oral presentation and a
paper of critical inquiry on a topic of the student's choice. The senior seminar reviews the analytical
skills that students have gained throughout their course of study and gives them the opportunity to
apply these to an independent research project. Emphasis is given to the process of deﬁning and
developing a substantial research topic and critical argument, and to the crafting of a major
research paper.
FREN 495 Honors Tutorial
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 1-8
/uni00A0 /uni00A0
FREN 496 Honors Tutorial
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 4-8
/uni00A0 /uni00A0
FYWS 151 First-Year Writing Seminar
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 4
A course that develops the ability to read and think critically, to employ discussion and writing as a
means of exploring and reﬁning ideas, and to express those ideas in eﬀective prose. Individual
sections of the course will explore diﬀerent topics in reading, discussion, and writing. Topics are
selected by individual professors and are designed to help students develop transferable skills of
analysis and argumentation, applicable to the various disciplines of the liberal arts and sciences.
Several papers will be required, at least one of which will involve use of the library and proper
documentation. The seminar will emphasize successive stages of the writing process, including
prewriting, drafting, and revision, and will provide feedback from classmates and the instructor.
Students may not take both FYWS 151 and FYWS 155.
Degree Requirements
F2s
FYWS 155 First-Year Writing Seminar: Daily
Themes
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 4
An alternative to FYWS 151 oﬀered to outstanding ﬁrst-year writers, by invitation from the Director
of College Writing. The course is limited to 12 students who meet as a class once a week and
individually with the instructor or in small groups with the Writing Fellow once a week. Students will
turn in 4 one-page themes each week. Some research will be required, and students will use their
daily themes as the basis for two longer papers: one at mid term and the other at the end of the
semester. Students may not take both FYWS 151 and FYWS 155.
Degree Requirements
F2s
GREK 101 Elementary Greek
Term: Fall
Credits: 4
This series of courses introduces students to the fundamentals of the ancient Greek language.
Although the primary goal of the
elementary sequence of courses through Greek 201 is to prepare students to use ancient Greek
documents in a wide variety of academic
contexts, students will develop all four language skills: reading, writing, listening, and speaking.
GREK 102 Elementary Greek
Term: Spring
Credits: 4
This series of courses introduces students to the fundamentals of the ancient Greek language.
Although the primary goal of the
elementary sequence of courses through Greek 201 is to prepare students to use ancient Greek
documents in a wide variety of academic
contexts, students will develop all four language skills: reading, writing, listening, and speaking.
GREK 201 Intermediate Greek
Term: Fall
Credits: 4
This course concludes the elementary language sequence and prepares students for more
advanced work in the language. During this
course, students will make the transition from graded selections in the elementary texts to
authentic ancient texts primarily from the ﬁfth
and fourth centuries BCE. In addition to developing their ability to comprehend and interpret
ancient texts, students will continue to
work on their aural-oral proﬁciency.
Degree Requirements
F10
Prerequisites
Elementary Greek
GREK 203 Koine Greek
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits:  4
This course introduces students to koine Greek, the “common” dialect of the post-classical period
from ca. 323 BCE to AD 300 and concentrates on the narrative and epistolary texts of the New
Testament. Instructors may choose to read in addition some selections from the Greek translation
of the Hebrew Scriptures (Septuagint), the Apocrypha and Pseudepigrapha, Philo, and Josephus.
Its primary aims
are to help students improve not only their ability to read ancient Greek texts in the original but
also to critically examine them, building upon the skills acquired in the Search and Life programs.
Degree Requirements
F1
F10
Prerequisites
Elementary Greek
GREK 265 Topics in Greek Literature
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits:  1-4
In this course advanced students of ancient Greek will read and analyze texts from major works of
literature. It will feature materials
organized thematically, generically, by period, or by author. Texts in this course will generally
represent signiﬁcant documents for the
study of the cultural and literary history of the Greek society and may also be the subjects of study
in other courses oﬀered at Rhodes
both by GRS and other disciplines. The course will help students develop greater reading ﬂuency
and expand their understanding of
interpretative approaches. The course will generally be taught as a four-credit course. Students in
special circumstances may take the
course for one, two, or three credits with the permission of the instructor. The course may be
repeated for credit if the topic diﬀers.
Degree Requirements
F4
F10
Prerequisites
Intermediate Greek
GREK 291 Homeric Poetry
Term: Fall
Credits: 4
This course, making extensive use of resources available via the internet, focuses on the earliest
literary documents in the Greek
language, the poems attributed to Homer. Readings will come primarily from the Iliad and Odyssey,
but students should expect to do
some work with the Hymns and the Hesiodic corpus as well. Students will participate in a weekly
webcast lecture, an on-line discussion
moderated by faculty members from institutions that participate in Sunoikisis (www.sunoikisis.org),
and weekly tutorials with faculty
members at Rhodes. This course is speciﬁcally designed for advanced students and will include a
rigorous study of the cultural and
historical context during the Archaic Period of Greek history as well as the issues of composition
and transmission. Students will also
become familiar with current interpretative approaches to the material.
Prerequisites
Topics in Greek Literature
GREK 292 Greek Lyric Poetry
Term: Fall
Credits:  4
This course, making extensive use of resources available via the internet, focuses on the evolution
of major types of Greek poetry,
including elegy, monodic lyric, and choral lyric. Students will participate in a weekly webcast
lecture, an on-line discussion moderated
by faculty members from institutions that participate in Sunoikisis (www.sunoikisis.org), and weekly
tutorials with faculty members at
Rhodes. This course is speciﬁcally designed for advanced students and will include a rigorous
study of the cultural and historical context
of the Archaic Period. Students will also become familiar with current interpretative approaches to
the material.
Prerequisites
Topics in Greek Literature
GREK 293 Greek Comedy
Term: Fall
Credits:  4
This course, making extensive use of resources available via the internet, focuses on the work of
the Athenian comic playwrights.
Students will participate in a weekly webcast lecture, an on-line discussion moderated by faculty
members from institutions that
participate in Sunoikisis (www.sunoikisis.org), and weekly tutorials with faculty members at Rhodes.
This course is speciﬁcally designed
for advanced students and will include a rigorous study of the cultural and historical context during
the 5th and 4th centuries BCE.
Students will also become familiar with the current interpretative approaches to the material.
GREK 294 Literature of the 4th Century BCE
Term: Fall
Credits:  4
This course, making extensive use of resources available via the internet, focuses on the work of
the Athenian historians, orators, and philosophers who were active in the 4th century BCE.
Students will participate in a weekly webcast lecture, an on-line discussion moderated by faculty
members from institutions that participate in Sunoiksis (www.sunoikisis.org), and weekly tutorials
with faculty members at their home institutions. This course is speciﬁcally designed for advanced
students and will include a rigorous study of the cultural and historical context during the 4th
century BCE. Students will also become familiar with the current interpretative approaches
to the material.
Prerequisites
Topics in Greek Literature
GREK 295 Hellenistic Literature
Term: Fall
Credits:  4
This course, making extensive use of resources available via the internet, focuses on the evolution
of Greek literature during the
Hellenistic period, which begins with the conquest of Alexander the Great and the founding of the
Museum at Alexandria by Ptolemy I
Soter. Students will read and study the works of the major authors of the period: Callimachus,
Theocritus, and Apollonius of Rhodes as
well as epigrams from other writers including Meleager, Philodemus, and Posidippus. Students will
participate in a weekly webcast
lecture, an on-line discussion moderated by faculty members from institutions that participate in
Sunoikisis (www.sunoikisis.org), and
weekly tutorials with faculty members at Rhodes. This course is speciﬁcally designed for advanced
students and will include a rigorous
study of the cultural and historical context of the Hellenistic Period. Students will also become
familiar with current interpretative
approaches to the material.
Prerequisites
Topics in Greek Literature
GREK 391 Homeric Poetry
Term: Fall
Credits:  4
This course, making extensive use of resources available via the internet, focuses on the earliest
literary documents in the Greek
language, the poems attributed to Homer. Readings will come primarily from the Iliad and Odyssey,
but students should expect to do
some work with the Hymns and the Hesiodic corpus as well. Students will participate in a weekly
webcast lecture, an on-line discussion
moderated by faculty members from institutions that participate in Sunoikisis (www.sunoikisis.org),
and weekly tutorials with faculty
members at Rhodes. This course is speciﬁcally designed for advanced students and will include a
rigorous study of the cultural and
historical context during the Archaic Period of Greek history as well as the issues of composition
and transmission. Students will also
become familiar with current interpretative approaches to the material.
Prerequisites
Topics in Greek Literature
GREK 392 Greek Lyric Poetry
Term: Fall
Credits:  4
This course, making extensive use of resources available via the internet, focuses on the evolution
of major types of Greek poetry,
including elegy, monodic lyric, and choral lyric. Students will participate in a weekly webcast
lecture, an on-line discussion moderated
by faculty members from institutions that participate in Sunoikisis (www.sunoikisis.org), and weekly
tutorials with faculty members at
Rhodes. This course is speciﬁcally designed for advanced students and will include a rigorous
study of the cultural and historical context
of the Archaic Period. Students will also become familiar with current interpretative approaches to
the material.
Prerequisites
Topics in Greek Literature
GREK 393 Greek Comedy
Term: Fall
Credits:  4
This course, making extensive use of resources available via the internet, focuses on the work of
the Athenian comic playwrights.
Students will participate in a weekly webcast lecture, an on-line discussion moderated by faculty
members from institutions that
participate in Sunoikisis (www.sunoikisis.org), and weekly tutorials with faculty members at Rhodes.
This course is speciﬁcally designed
for advanced students and will include a rigorous study of the cultural and historical context during
the 5th and 4th centuries BCE.
Students will also become familiar with the current interpretative approaches to the material.
GREK 394 Literature of the 4th Century BCE
Term: Fall
Credits:  4
This course, making extensive use of resources available via the internet, focuses on the work of
the Athenian historians, orators, and
philosophers who were active in the 4th century BCE. Students will participate in a weekly webcast
lecture, an on-line discussion
moderated by faculty members from institutions that participate in Sunoiksis (www.sunoikisis.org),
and weekly tutorials with faculty
members at their home institutions. This course is speciﬁcally designed for advanced students and
will include a rigorous study of the
cultural and historical context during the 4th century BCE. Students will also become familiar with
the current interpretative approaches
to the material.
Prerequisites
Topics in Greek Literature
GREK 395 Hellenistic Literature
Term: Fall
Credits:  4
This course, making extensive use of resources available via the internet, focuses on the evolution
of Greek literature during the
Hellenistic period, which begins with the conquest of Alexander the Great and the founding of the
Museum at Alexandria by Ptolemy I
Soter. Students will read and study the works of the major authors of the period: Callimachus,
Theocritus, and Apollonius of Rhodes as
well as epigrams from other writers including Meleager, Philodemus, and Posidippus. Students will
participate in a weekly webcast
lecture, an on-line discussion moderated by faculty members from institutions that participate in
Sunoikisis (www.sunoikisis.org), and
weekly tutorials with faculty members at Rhodes. This course is speciﬁcally designed for advanced
students and will include a rigorous
study of the cultural and historical context of the Hellenistic Period. Students will also become
familiar with current interpretative
approaches to the material.
Prerequisites
Topics in Greek Literature
GREK 415 Tutorial Assistantship
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 2
Under the direction of the instructor, the tutorial assistant will be responsible for helping plan and
conduct the tutorial sessions for
elementary students. Assistants will also develop a familiarity with issues concerning second
language acquisition and assist in the
evaluation of language courses. This course is open only to advanced students and by permission
of the instructor.
GRST 101 Beginning German I
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 4
Part 1 of the Introduction to German language and culture. Through ﬂipped-classroom model and
communicative approaches, students develop basic proﬁciency in German speaking, listening,
reading, and writing. Students learn about critical concerns connecting Germany and the globe.
Through short texts, interactive activities, experiments, and interviews, students learn about and
discuss topics like nutrition and cuisine, fashion, family, and ﬁtness. The language of instruction is
German and corresponds to standard proﬁciency guidelines for "novice low-high" (A1) language
learners.
/uni00A0
GRST 102 Beginning German II
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 4
Part 2 of the Introduction to German language and culture. Through ﬂipped-classroom model and
communicative approaches, students develop basic proﬁciency in German speaking, listening,
reading, and writing. Students learn about critical concerns connecting Germany and the globe.
Through short texts, interactive activities, experiments, and interviews, students learn about and
discuss topics like recycling and climate change, migration and religion. The language of
instruction is German and corresponds to standard proﬁciency guidelines for "intermediate low-
mid" (A2) language learners.
/uni00A0
Prerequisites
Beginning German I
GRST 201 Intermediate German I
Term: Fall
Credits: 4
What is German? - Multicultural Voices in the German-Speaking World - Through a literacy-based
study of multicultural voices from the German-speaking world, including the immigrant experience
and exile narratives, via a variety of text genres, students will gain further proﬁciency in German
speaking, listening comprehension, reading, and writing. The language of instruction is German,
corresponding to standard proﬁciency guidelines for “novice high” to “intermediate low” language
learners.
/uni00A0
Degree Requirements
F10
Prerequisites
Beginning German II
German in Germany I
GRST 202 Intermediate German II
Term: Spring
Credits: 4
Contemporary German Media -Through a literacy-based study of contemporary German life
through news broadcasts, articles from the German press, ﬁlm, and other media, students will gain
further proﬁciency in German speaking, listening comprehension, reading, and writing. The
language of instruction is German and corresponds to standard proﬁciency guidelines for
“intermediate mid-advanced low” (B1.2) language learners.
/uni00A0
Prerequisites
Intermediate German I
GRST 205 German in Germany I
Term: Summer
Credits: 4
An intensive study of intermediate German in Germany. This course does not count toward the
major or the minor.
Degree Requirements
F11
GRST 206 German in Germany II
Credits: 4
An intensive study of intermediate German in Germany.
GRST 210 Readings (intermediate level)
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 1-4
Readings designed to meet individual interests and needs.
GRST 220 German Literature, Culture, and
Society, 1750-1870
Term: Fall
Credits: 4
A two-semester survey of the cultural and intellectual history of the German speaking peoples
particularly after 1750. The historical
periods covered will be presented within the framework of speciﬁc topics, such as revolution or
national identity. Readings from a variety of areas (literature, philosophy, politics, etc.); ﬁlms,
lectures, reports, and discussions. 220/320 will cover roughly 1750-1870; 221/321 will proceed from
1870-present. German 320-321 is reserved for majors and minors. Students taking these courses
toward the major or minor must take one credit of 311 concurrently.
Degree Requirements
F3
F4
GRST 221 German Literature, Culture, and
Society 1871-Present
Term: Fall
Credits: 4
A two-semester survey of the cultural and intellectual history of the German speaking peoples
particularly after 1750. The historical
periods covered will be presented within the framework of speciﬁc topics, such as revolution or
national identity. Readings from a/uni00A0variety of areas (literature, philosophy, politics, etc.); ﬁlms,
lectures, reports, and discussions. 220/320 will cover roughly 1750-1870;/uni00A0221/321 will proceed from
1870-present. German 320-321 is reserved for majors and minors. Students taking these courses
toward the/uni00A0major or minor must take one credit of 311 concurrently.
Degree Requirements
F3
GRST 240 German Cinema
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 4
This course, examining important German ﬁlms since the days of the Weimar Republic, places
special emphasis on the historical and social background of each ﬁlm as well as the aesthetic
qualities of the works. It thereby seeks to contribute to a better understanding of recent German
history and of ﬁlms as an artistic medium. Filmmakers to be studied include Friedrich Murnau, Fritz
Lang, Leni Riefenstahl, Volker Schlöndorﬀ , Helma Sanders-Brahms, Wim Wenders, Rainer Werner
Fassbinder, and Wolfgang Becker. All ﬁlms are subtitled; the course is taught in English. German
Studies 340 is reserved for majors and minors, who will do substantial portions of coursework in
German.
Degree Requirements
F5
GRST 242 The Holocaust in Text, Image, and
Memory
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 4
Examination of such topics as the origins and expressions of Anti-Semitism in central Europe, the
political events and structures of the
Holocaust, the reality of ghettos and concentration camps, the impact of technological
modernization on the Final Solution, and
resistance to the Nazis. Materials will include non-ﬁctional texts, literature, art, and music. All
materials and discussions in English.
German 342 is reserved for majors and minors, who will do substantial portions of the work for the
course in German.
Degree Requirements
F2
F9
GRST 244 German Myths and Fairy Tales
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 4
An introduction to German myths and fairy tales from the 19th century to the present day. Students
read original stories and legends and compare them to modern literary and visual adaptations.
Considering the ideological importance of the German forest; analyzing issues of gender, violence,
fatness, and disability; and examining the reoccurring and hybrid ﬁgure of the siren, students turn a
critical eye on the German literary tradition. The language of instruction is English. German Studies
344 is reserved for majors and minors, who will do substantial portions of coursework in German.
Degree Requirements
F2
F4
GRST 248 Topics in German Literature
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 4
Emphasis on a speciﬁc author, group of authors, or theme. Course topics may vary, and students
may repeat the course with a diﬀerent topic. The language of instruction is English. German
Studies 348 is reserved for majors and minors, who will do substantial portions of coursework in
German.
Degree Requirements
F4
GRST 301 German in the Professional and
Business World
Term: Fall
Credits: 4
Students explore the professional and cultural aspects of the German business world. Crafting
career portfolios and participating in mock interviews, B1 students hone their vocabulary and
grammatical abilities by way of authentic case studies and relevant role play. By engaging with
guest speakers working in Germany and analyzing relevant ﬁlms, texts, and cultural objects,
students are encouraged to draw critical comparisons between business and professional life in
Germany and North America amid the global economy. The language of instruction is German and
corresponds to standard proﬁciency guidelines for "advanced low" (B2.1) language learners.
Prerequisites
Intermediate German II
GRST 302 Babylon Berlin: Crime, Sex, and the
City
Term: Spring
Credits: 4
In this course, students watch and analyze the popular Netﬂix series Babylon Berlin to further
develop speaking, comprehension, reading, and writing skills in German. Pairing episodes of the
hit television show with primary sources, students explore the tumultuous political climate,
scintillating cabaret culture, and budding disciplines of criminology and sexology in the Weimar
period between world wars. The language of instruction is German and corresponds to standard
proﬁciency guidelines for "advanced mid" (B2.2) language learners./uni00A0
/uni00A0
Prerequisites
Intermediate German II
German in the Professional and Business World
GRST 305 German in Germany I
Term: Summer
Credits: 4
An intensive study of advanced German in Germany.
Degree Requirements
F11
GRST 306 German in Germany II
Credits: 4
An intensive study of advanced German in Germany.
GRST 310 Readings (Advanced Level)
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 1-4
Readings designed to meet individual interests and needs. May be taken more than once for
credit with new topics.
GRST 311 Supplemental Readings
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 1
This course is designed to give students opportunities to read, write, and speak in German in
conjunction with the coursework in English. /uni00A0
GRST 320 German Literature, Culture, and
Society, 1750-1870
Term: Fall
Credits: 4
A two-semester survey of the cultural and intellectual history of the German speaking peoples
particularly after 1750. The historical
periods covered will be presented within the framework of speciﬁc topics, such as revolution or
national identity. Readings from a/uni00A0variety of areas (literature, philosophy, politics, etc.); ﬁlms,
lectures, reports, and discussions. 220/320 will cover roughly 1750-1870;/uni00A0221/321 will proceed from
1870-present. German 320-321 is reserved for majors and minors. Students taking these courses
toward the/uni00A0major or minor must take one credit of 311 concurrently.
Degree Requirements
F3
F4
Prerequisites
German in the Professional and Business World
Babylon Berlin: Crime, Sex, and the City
GRST 321 German Literature, Culture, and
Society, 1871-Present
Term: Fall
Credits: 4
A two-semester survey of the cultural and intellectual history of the German speaking peoples
particularly after 1750. The historical periods covered will be presented within the framework of
speciﬁc topics, such as revolution or national identity. Readings from a/uni00A0variety of areas (literature,
philosophy, politics, etc.); ﬁlms, lectures, reports, and discussions. 220/320 will cover roughly 1750-
1870;/uni00A0221/321 will proceed from 1870-present. German 320-321 is reserved for majors and minors.
Students taking these courses toward the/uni00A0major or minor must take one credit of 311 concurrently.
Degree Requirements
F3
Prerequisites
German in the Professional and Business World
Babylon Berlin: Crime, Sex, and the City
GRST 340 German Cinema
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 4
This course, examining important German ﬁlms since the days of the Weimar Republic, places
special emphasis on the historical and social background of each ﬁlm as well as the aesthetic
qualities of the works. It thereby seeks to contribute to a better understanding of recent German
history and of ﬁlms as an artistic medium. Filmmakers to be studied include Friedrich Murnau, Fritz
Lang, Leni Riefenstahl, Volker Schlöndorﬀ , Helma Sanders-Brahms, Wim Wenders, Rainer Werner
Fassbinder, and Wolfgang Becker. All ﬁlms are subtitled; the course is taught in English. German
Studies 340 is reserved for majors and minors, who will do substantial portions of coursework in
German.
/uni00A0
Degree Requirements
F5
Prerequisites
German in the Professional and Business World
GRST 342 The Holocaust in Text, Image, and
Memory
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 4
Examination of such topics as the origins and expressions of Anti-Semitism in central Europe, the
political events and structures of the
Holocaust, the reality of ghettos and concentration camps, the impact of technological
modernization on the Final Solution, and
resistance to the Nazis. Materials will include non-ﬁctional texts, literature, art, and music. All
materials and discussions in English.
German 342 is reserved for majors and minors, who will do substantial portions of the work for the
course in German.
Degree Requirements
F2
F9
GRST 344 German Myths and Fairy Tales
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 4
An introduction to German myths and fairy tales from the 19th century to the present day. Students
read original stories and legends and compare them to modern literary and visual adaptations.
Considering the ideological importance of the German forest; analyzing issues of gender, violence,
fatness, and disability; and examining the reoccurring and hybrid ﬁgure of the siren, students turn a
critical eye on the German literary tradition. The language of instruction is English. German Studies
344 is reserved for majors and minors who will do substantial portions of coursework in German.
Degree Requirements
F2
F4
GRST 348 Topics in German Literature
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 4
Emphasis on a speciﬁc author, group of authors, or theme. Course topics may vary, and students
may repeat the course with a diﬀerent topic. The language of instruction is English. German
Studies 348 is reserved for majors and minors, who will do substantial portions of coursework in
German.
Degree Requirements
F4
GRST 409 Topics in German Cultural Studies
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 4
Intensive study of some aspect or theme of German literature, culture or society in German. May
be taken more than once for credit with new topics.
Prerequisites
German in the Professional and Business World
Babylon Berlin: Crime, Sex, and the City
GRST 486 Senior Seminar
Term: Spring
Credits: 4
An advanced, theoretical course for German majors toward the completion of the capstone
project. The ﬁrst half of the semester is dedicated to study of theoretical methods of literary
analysis, the toolbox of cultural studies, and the protocols of archival research. The second half of
the semester involves capstone writing and cohort workshopping of the capstone. All students are
expected to present their capstone research project at the Rhodes Symposium. This course is
taught and conducted in German. The format of instruction may vary.
GRST 495 Honors Tutorial
Term: Fall
Credits: 4-8
Honors Tutorial. /uni00A0
GRST 496 Honors Tutorial
Term: Spring
Credits: 4-8
/uni00A0Honors Tutorial
AMS 110 Pathways to Cultural Knowledge I
Term: Fall
Credits: 4
As societies inherit and then redeﬁne their own cultural realities, they also accumulate selective
knowledge that is important in shaping their religious, political, and philosophical identities. But
how is this cultural knowledge transmitted usefully and memorably to others? While reading an
eclectic range of texts including biblical works, heroic epics, philosophical treatises, modern
performance poetry, and more, we will explore varied communication strategies in oral storytelling,
written manuscripts and papyri, printed texts, and even sign language and the internet. This multi-
disciplinary approach opens a space for us to critically examine our own biases and to recognize
the value and meaning in complex texts emerging from diverse cultures, religious perspectives,
media, and time periods.
This course is the ﬁrst part of a yearlong sequence. The semester will be governed by two
organizing principles. First, we will group texts according to their cultural and thematic contents,
paying special attention not only to similarities among diﬀerent traditions but also to their important
diﬀerences that make each text and tradition unique. Second, we will regularly be introducing new
theoretical concepts related to communication strategies as we build a toolset for interpreting
works arising in a wide variety of cultural contexts and time periods.
This course is also structured around fulﬁlling the F1 requirement. As such it will:
• “engage students in a critical examination of the values they hold as individuals and their social
and historical location” through exploration of “the complex legacies” of formative texts and
traditions. As we proceed through the course, we will therefore endeavor to understand how these
texts, traditions, and communication strategies generate meaning in their original context, but we
will also emphasize (in both our class conversations and also our daily written reﬂections) their
implications for our own values and activities on a personal level as they aﬀect us every day.
• “oﬀer academically ‘sound and comprehensive’ exploration of biblical texts and traditions” as it
engages students in “a critical examination of personal, social, and cultural values through the
academic study of biblical literature and of traditions that are productively compared with it.”
Several of this semester’s texts are themselves integral parts of the Biblical canon, but every text
we will consider this semester has been selected in large part because it can help us to
understand the historical context of those Biblical texts, illustrate their reception in cultures beyond
those of their earliest audiences, and/or examine traditions and values that often contrast with
Biblical perspectives.
/uni00A0
Degree Requirements
F1
AMS 111 Pathways to Cultural Knowledge II
Term: Spring
Credits: 4
As societies inherit and then redeﬁne their own cultural realities, they also accumulate selective
knowledge that is important in shaping their religious, political, and philosophical identities. But
how is this cultural knowledge transmitted usefully and memorably to others? While reading an
eclectic range of texts including biblical works, heroic epics, philosophical treatises, modern
performance poetry, and more, we will explore varied communication strategies in oral storytelling,
written manuscripts and papyri, printed texts, and even sign language and the internet. This multi-
disciplinary approach opens a space for us to critically examine our own biases and to recognize
the value and meaning in complex texts emerging from diverse cultures, religious perspectives,
media, and time periods.
This course is the second part of a yearlong sequence and builds upon the interpretive
frameworks and theoretical tools we explored in the fall, especially those related to communication
strategies and the transmission of cultural values. The course is also structured around fulﬁlling the
F1 and F2i requirements. As such it will:
• “engage students in a critical examination of the values they hold as individuals and their social
and historical location” through exploration of “the complex legacies” of formative texts and
traditions. As we proceed through the course, we will therefore endeavor to understand how these
texts, traditions, and communication strategies generate meaning in their original context, but we
will also emphasize (in both our class conversations and also our daily written reﬂections) their
implications for our own values and activities on a personal level as they aﬀect us every day.
• “oﬀer academically ‘sound and comprehensive’ exploration of biblical texts and traditions” as it
engages students in “a critical examination of personal, social, and cultural values through the
academic study of biblical literature and of traditions that are productively compared with it.”
Several of this semester’s texts are themselves integral parts of the Biblical canon, but every text
we will consider this semester has been selected in large part because it can help us to
understand the historical context of those Biblical texts, illustrate their reception in cultures beyond
those of their earliest audiences, and/or examine traditions and values that often contrast with
Biblical perspectives.
• provide one of the “initial steps in [each] student’s deliberate development as a writer,”
emphasizing learning through “writing assignments that generate or respond to content.” Course
requirements will therefore involve informal reﬂections that engage daily with our reading
assignments as well as three formal papers centered upon analyzing the various texts and
traditions we are studying. We will also spend multiple class periods discussing aspects of the
writing process and developing tools that might better our abilities to express ourselves in written
form. Finally, your last assignment of the semester will involve a wholesale revision of one of the
three formal papers produced earlier in the term. Taken together, these assignments and
discussions centered around writing should not only help you personally to become a better writer,
but also enhance your understanding of writing as a technology that aﬀects the ways that
individuals think and disseminate information to other members of their communities.
/uni00A0
Degree Requirements
F1
F2i
Prerequisites
Pathways to Cultural Knowledge I
AMS 150 Language Study
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: Variable
This course allows students to receive credit for studying languages not regularly oﬀered on
campus. Information concerning these
languages is available from the chair of the department.
AMS 210 Pathways to Cultural Knowledge III
Term: Fall
Credits: 4
This course continues the work of Ancient Mediterranean Studies 110 and 111, which examined the
wayssocieties have inherited and redeﬁned their cultural realities, accumulating along the way
knowledge andexperiences which shape their religious, political and philosophical identities. In
AMS 110, students focusedon how texts emerge diﬀerently according to their traditional and
communicative contexts. In the secondsemester the focus shifted to examining how subsequent
generations re-created, reinterpreted, at timescanonized, and at other times discarded parts of
their received textual inheritance as they began to inter-act with larger literary, philosophical, and
religious movements. AMS 210 begins geographically in Byzan-tium, about 900 miles east of
Ravenna, where Dante died in in 1321, and about three hundred years earlieras the Seljuk Turks
move westward into the territory of Byzantium. Our focus this semester will be the waysome
cultures disappeared or nearly disappeared and how lost cultures reemerged.
Prerequisites: AMS 110 and AMS 111 OR HUM 101 and HUM 102
Degree Requirements
F1
AMS 235 The Other Side of Rome
Credits: 4
Most Roman history courses focus on political and military leaders–“great men” such as Julius
Caesar, Gnaeus Pompeius, Cicero, and Augustus–and their accomplishments. This is owed in part
to the limitations of our sources, and in part to our own bias for seeking out individual actors and
agents of political change. But this course will have a diﬀerent focus. We will look at the “other side
of Rome”: those who were part of the Roman Empire but not of the ruling elite.
These will include slaves, freedpersons, women, the poor, and the provincials at the edges of the
Roman world. We will examine the roles that these diﬀerent groups played in Rome’s history and
culture–gladiators, prostitutes, soldiers, authors, wives, and more. And we will consider not only
how these marginalized groups were viewed and treated by the Roman elite, but also how these
groups viewed traditional Roman society and culture.
Degree Requirements
F9
F3
AMS 240 Language Acquisition and Pedagogy
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 4
This course is a survey of a range of issues related to language acquisition and teaching. Among
the areas covered are instructional
methodologies and approaches, second language acquisition theories, language skill
development, language teaching and learning
technology, communicative and cultural competency, and assessment.
AMS 245 Texts and Contexts
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 4
Topics in Greek and Roman literature organized chronologically, thematically, generically, or by
geographic region. Topics might include
literature of the fourth century BCE, love and gender, the ancient novel, or Alexandrian authors.
The course aims to introduce students to
the basic methods of reading and writing critically but with an emphasis on the special qualities of
ancient texts (production and
reception, e.g.). Background in the cultures of Greece and Rome will be oﬀered as necessary to
understand the texts in their cultural
context. Students may take this course more than once if topics change
Degree Requirements
F4
AMS 250 Serving Gods: Religion in Ancient
Greece and Rome
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits:  4
This course will use documents and material artifacts to reconstruct the beliefs and rituals of the
traditional religions of Greece and
Rome. The approach will focus on particular shared aspects of the sacred among the Greeks and
Romans. Topics will include Greco-
Roman theology, sacriﬁce and its interpretation, hero cult, the afterlife, oracles and forms of
prophecy, maintenance of sanctuaries,
philosophical religion and emperor worship.
Degree Requirements
F1
AMS 255 Myth in Ancient Greece and Rome
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits:  4
A study of the mythoi from ancient Greece and Rome as transmitted in a variety of multiforms in the
literary and the plastic arts,
including those from the ancient period and modern adaptations. The course aims to familiarize
students with both the basic Greek and
Roman myths as well as the major schools of myth interpretation. Interpretative traditions to be
covered may include those of the myth
and ritual school, the psychoanalysts, and the structuralists.
Degree Requirements
F1
AMS 260 Poetry and Performance
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 4
This course will examine the relationship between the evolution of poetic genres and the contexts
of performance. The approach and range of topics will change from year to year. Examples of
topics include Homeric poetry and the role of the oral tradition in the deﬁnition and maintenance of
communities during the Archaic period; lyric poetry and the function of the persona loquens in the
polis; Athenian tragedy and comedy as a reﬂection of the cultural, economic, and political
concerns of Attika and the greater Greek-speaking world; Roman comedy and the interaction
between Greek and Roman cultural norms. Students may take this course more than once if topics
change.
Degree Requirements
F4
AMS 265 Special Topics in Ancient
Mediterranean Studies
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 4
Topics in Ancient Mediterranean/uni00A0Studies vary by semester and instructor availability./uni00A0 Certain topics
may meet Foundations requirements as indicated on the semester schedule of class oﬀerings./uni00A0
AMS 270 Ancient Political Economy
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 4
This course provides a broad survey of ancient political economy. The ancients played a very
important role in the development of this
area of inquiry: they not only invented the term, but were also the ﬁrst to discover some of the
most seminal economic concepts of the
western tradition, such as the division of labor, marginal utility, and supply and demand. Perhaps
more importantly, they were the ﬁrst to
understand how essential these ideas were for promoting the common good. In addition to
examining the economic policies and systems
of the major city-states and nations of antiquity and the changes they underwent over time, the
course will investigate the political
economic thought of the Greek and Roman philosophers, such as Xenophon, Plato, Aristotle, and
Cicero.
Degree Requirements
F3
AMS 275 Introduction to Classical Studies
Term: Spring
Credits: 4
This course introduces students to the study of the ancient world and its documentary and non-
literary domains. Within the former
domain, topics of study will include the nature of ancient written texts, scholia, lexica, grammars,
commentaries, interpretive analyses,
bibliographies, manuscript traditions, and modern scholarly resources. With regard to the non-
literary sources of information, students
will become familiar with the types of material artifacts used to study the cultures of ancient
Greece and Rome and the theoretical
approaches to the study. Although students may take this course at any time, majors must take this
course before they enroll in GRS 475,
which they will normally take in the fall semester of the senior year. Course oﬀered in alternate
years; scheduled for 2014-15.
AMS 280 African Receptions of Greek and
Roman Poetry
Credits: 4
This course will study how artists of the African Diaspora have translated, adapted, and re-
envisioned the poetic works from the Greek- and Latin-speaking cultures of antiquity as vehicles to
express their individual views, illuminate aspects of their cultures, and comment on the concerns
and conﬂicts within their own communities and between their communities and external forces.
Degree Requirements
F4
F9
AMS 283 Introduction to Study in Europe, the
Mediterranean, and the Near East
Term: Spring
Credits: 1
This course prepares students to participate in Latin 232: Latin in Rome, GRS 305: Travel-Study in
Europe, the Mediterranean, and the
Near East, the classical track of European Studies, and other opportunities for travel-study, for
example, archaeological ﬁeld schools and
trips to museum collections. This course generally focuses on one country or region (e.g. Egypt,
Greece, Italy, or Turkey) each time it is
oﬀered. Weekly meetings will cover introductory material on a variety of topics that will prepare
students for their travel-study
experience. Students will be expected to complete a number of relevant readings, participate in
discussions, and attend lectures and other
cultural activities.
AMS 285 Classical Myth and Its Reception in
Modern Film
Credits: 4
This course focuses on the close reading of mythological texts from ancient Greece and Rome,
with particular attention to their speciﬁc literary qualities and linguistic art. The course also employs
reception studies as a means of literary interpretation. How do modern ﬁlms understand and make
use of our mythological inheritance, both explicitly and implicitly, in whole or in part? Students will
emerge from the course as critical, sensitive readers and viewers possessing reﬁned analytical
skills and a heightened awareness of the power of language.
Prerequisites: Successful completion of or concurrent enrollment in HUM 101/102, or consent of
instructor.
Degree Requirements
F4
AMS 290 The Fall of the Roman Empire
Term: Spring
Credits: 4
This course will explore the transformationsof the Mediterranean world from the late third century
to the seventh century C.E. Majorthemes tobe discussed include the fall of the western Roman
empire, the barbarian invasions, theChristianization of the Roman empire, the emergence of
monasticism and the cult of thesaints,and the rise of Islam. Major characters will include, for
example, Constantine, Augustine ofHippo,Attila the Hun, Stilicho, Benedict of Nursia or
Muhammad. We will place these charactersagainst aconcrete social, geographical and
archaeological context.
Degree Requirements
F3
AMS 305 Travel-Study in Europe, the
Mediterranean, and the Near East
Term: Summer
Credits: 4
This course oﬀers an intensive introduction to the material culture of ancient Mediterranean and
Middle Eastern countries. The course
generally focuses on one country, e.g., Egypt, Greece, Italy, or Turkey) each time it is oﬀered.
Through visits to archaeological sites and
museums, the course will cover the evolution of art, architecture, and other aspects of material
culture beginning with the period of the
earliest human presence and, depending on the region, working through societies of the ﬁrst
millennium CE. The course of travel and
study generally lasts four weeks. If possible, students should enroll in at least one of the following
courses as preparation for this course:
Art 220, 231, 318, 319, 320, History 205 (when appropriate). Students may take this course more
than once if the itinerary changes.
AMS 315 Fieldwork in Material Culture
Term: Summer
Credits: 2
This course allows students to receive credit for participating in an oﬀ-campus internship or ﬁeld
school under professional supervision
in areas that pertain to the discovery, recovery, preservation, and study of artifacts from ancient or
medieval European, Mediterranean,
and Near Eastern civilizations.
AMS 361 GIS and Mediterranean Archaeology
Term: Fall
Credits: 4
This course introduces students to the methods, theories, and practices associated with primary
(ﬁeld or lab) and secondary (library)
research in archaeological survey with an emphasis on the use of information technologies,
primarily geographical information systems (GIS)./uni00A0
AMS 474 Introduction to Senior Seminar
Term: Spring
Credits: 1
In the spring semesters of their junior years, majors in GRS will prepare for the capstone
experience by consulting with members of the
faculty to develop topics of inquiry and outline programs of research that will serve as a focus for
their work in the discipline both during
their senior years and the summers before.
Prerequisites
Introduction to Classical Studies
AMS 475 Senior Seminar
Term: Fall
Credits: 4
This course represents the capstone experience for all majors in GRS. Although the speciﬁc topic
of study will vary from year to year
depending on the interests and goals of the participants, students will engage in a signiﬁcant
scholarly investigation into some aspect of
the ancient world. The students’ work must reﬂect an engagement with primary materials and their
familiarity with and ability to use
secondary resources. Students are encouraged to select topics that reﬂect their interests and
postgraduate plans and incorporate their
work as majors and minors in ﬁelds other than GRS. Normally, the project will culminate in a
research paper, but other products are
possible, such as a creative work. Generally, seniors will present the results of their work in an oral
presentation for other students and
faculty members at an event scheduled on campus or at a conference for undergraduate research.
AMS 476 Senior Seminar: Dissemination
Term: Spring
Credits:  1
In the spring semester of their senior years, majors in GRS will complete their capstone
experiences by working with faculty members
on transforming their research into formats for public dissemination primarily as presentations for
undergraduate conferences and
symposia. They will be responsible for developing abstracts, adapting their projects, and
presenting their research in public settings such
as the Undergraduate Research and Creative Activity Symposium (URCAS) at Rhodes or the
Sunoikisis Undergraduate Research
Symposium.
AMS 495 Honors Tutorial
Term: Fall
Credits:  4
These courses are for students working on an honors project as described above. Permission of
the advisor is required for enrollment in
these courses.
AMS 496 Honors Tutorial
Term: Spring
Credits:  4
These courses are for students working on an honors project as described above. Permission of
the advisor is required for enrollment in
these courses.
GSST 200 Introduction to Gender and Sexuality
Studies
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits:  4
An interdisciplinary course designed primarily for ﬁrst and second year students. This course
explores the construction of gendered ideologies from a variety of disciplinary perspectives.
GSST 300 Queer Theory
Term: Fall
Credits:  4
An introduction to queer theory as an interdisciplinary ﬁeld of academic study. This course
introduces students to key authors, texts, and debates in queer theory. This course is
recommended for all GSS students prior to GSS 400, but is open to students in all academic
disciplines.
GSST 301 Advanced Research in Gender Studies
Credits:  1
In this advanced course, students will further develop existing individual research projects in
gender and sexuality studies for publication, presentation at conferences, and other public
dispersal. Students will advance to this class after prior coursework in GSS at Rhodes, based on
professor’s approval of projects already in process. Group sessions with a small cohort every other
week of the semester will support individual research. The ﬁnal outcome of the course will be the
submission of materials to public opportunities.
Prerequisites
Introduction to Gender and Sexuality Studies
GSST 400 Feminist Theory
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits:  4
An interdisciplinary seminar in contemporary feminist and queer thought for advanced students.
Students will examine the contributions of feminist scholars in ﬁelds including political theory,
literary criticism, psychology, anthropology, sociology, and philosophy. Junior or senior standing
recommended. Prerequisite: GSST 200 or the permission of the instructor.
GSST 460 Internship
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 1-4
A directed internship in which students integrate their academic study of gender or sexuality
issues with practical experience in oﬀcampus
organizations, agencies, or businesses. To be eligible, students must have a G.P.A. of 2.5 or higher.
/uni00A0
Degree Requirements
F11
HIST 102 The Bible and War
Term: Spring
Credits: 4
An oft-quoted verse from the Book of Ecclesiastes 3:8 “a time for war, a time for peace,” speaks to
one of the fundamental tensions in the Bible: war or peace. This course will explore the various
ideas of war espoused in the Hebrew Bible and New Testament and how these ideas have let
themselves to human violence throughout history. We will use the theme of war to investigate how
people across time and within a wide range of diverse cultural contexts have engaged with Jewish
and Christian sacred texts to make meaning and value in their world. Students will examine the
Bible but also a variety of other texts whose authors have drawn inspiration from it. Topics for our
discussion will include: ideals of masculinity and femininity; debates about just wars; conscientious
objectors; the Crusades; religious civil wars in France; conquest of the Americas; Christian
imperialism; the Israeli-Palestinian Conﬂict; and current conﬂicts, among others. This course will
count towards a History Major or Minor.
Degree Requirements
F1
HIST 105 Introductory Seminars in History
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 4
History 105 courses are open to all students./uni00A0 Each section focuses on a speciﬁc historical topic
and fulﬁlls one of the written communication requirements (F2i) under the Foundations Curriculum
as well as the historical forces (F3) requirement./uni00A0 Students may repeat these courses for credit
toward the History major and minor if the topic is diﬀerent; students may count 2 courses at the
100 level toward the major or minor./uni00A0 Possible topics include: "Disease and Epidemics," "British
Empire through Film," "History of Human Reproduction," "Terrorism, Torture, and Anti-
Colonialism,"/uni00A0"The Supreme Course in US History," "The Two Koreas," "Martin Luther King in
Historical Context," and "The Mongol World Empire."
Degree Requirements
F2i
F3
HIST 165 Topics in History: Summer Study
Term: Summer
Credits: 4
Introduction to selected periods in history taken during a Maymester or other summer study, either
at Rhodes, the Summer Study in London program, or another course outside the traditional
academic calendar taught by a Rhodes faculty member./uni00A0 Topics vary with instructor./uni00A0 May be
repeated for credit when topics vary./uni00A0 Foundation credits vary according to topic.
HIST 205 Selected Topics in History
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 4
Introduction to selected periods in history. Varies with instructor. May be repeated for credit when
topics vary.
Degree Requirements
F3
HIST 207 Global Environmental History
Term: Spring
Credits: 4
This course is an introduction to the ﬁeld of environmental history. What can our environment tell
us about our past? How have natural resources shaped patterns of human life in diﬀerent regions
of the world? What meanings have people attached to nature and how have those attitudes
shaped their cultural and political lives? We will analyze the ecological context of human existence,
with the understanding that the environment is an agent and a presence in human history.
Because environmental change often transcends national boundaries, this course places important
subjects like disease, agriculture, forests, water, industrialization, and conservationism into a global
context. This course includes a lab for ﬁeld excursions.
Degree Requirements
F3
F11
Global/Comparative History
Environmental Studies Elective
HIST 209 Natural Disasters
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 4
By studying the evolution of people’s responses to “natural disasters,” this course helps students
understand the politics of environmental change. The course begins by developing a conceptual
vocabulary drawn from the interdisciplinary ﬁeld of “disaster studies.” We then explore the
governmental, economic, and social contexts and institutional responses to several catastrophic
events -- such as volcanoes, hurricanes, earthquakes, ﬂoods, and ﬁres -- to discover how they
reshaped laws, public policy, and urban development. Students will examine how the mass media
has often misrepresented disasters thereby creating public perceptions which have a signiﬁcant
impact on policy. We will also consider how disasters are woven into the historical memories of
various societies and used as reference points to understand both the past and the future.
/uni00A0
Degree Requirements
F3
F8
Global/Comparative History
Environmental Studies Elective
Urban Studies Elective
HIST 211 The Ancient Mediterranean
Term: Fall
Credits: 4
Major Requirement: History of Europe, Period prior to 1500
This course is an introductory survey of the history of the ancient Mediterranean from ca. 3000
B.C. to ca. A.D. 500 that focuses on the great civilizations of Egypt, Greece, Rome, and the Near
East (e.g., Assyria and Persia.) Each civilization had its distinctive character, and yet vigorous
cultural exchanges within the area, and beyond, led to the assimilation, adaptation, and sometimes
even rejection by one culture of the ideas and practices of another. Thus, the course will track
these interactions and examine their consequences for the historical development of
Mediterranean civilizations. Also considered will be a rich variety of evidence that includes literary
texts, inscribed documents, artifacts, coins, art, and architecture. (Course oﬀered in alternate years.)
Degree Requirements
F3
HIST 212 Medieval World, 500-1500
Term: Fall
Credits: 4
Major Requirement: History of Europe, Period prior to 1500
From the fall of the Roman Empire in the west to the rise of Islam in the east, the Middle Ages
began with a series of fundamental transformations that would change the world. This course
traces the foundational political, religious, social, and cultural developments of the period between
300 and 1500, in Europe, North Africa, and the Middle East. Particular attention will be paid to how
factors such as class, gender, religious identity, and ethnicity shaped individuals’ experiences of
the medieval world.
/uni00A0
Degree Requirements
F3
HIST 213 Renaissance and Reformation Europe
Term: Spring
Credits: 4
Major Requirement: History of Europe, Period prior to 1500
This course begins by examining the changes, as well as the medieval carry-overs, that brought
about the period known as the Renaissance. The eﬀects of impersonal forces such as climate
change and epidemics, the impact of the discovery of the Americas, and a new understanding of
human capabilities will be considered. The course then turns to a survey of the intellectual
movements and of the religious, social, and political characteristics of European history from 1500
(the coming of the Reformation) to 1714 (the height of French power under Louis XIV.) The emphasis
will fall upon those changes that prepared society for the transition to what is now considered the
“modern” world. (Course oﬀered in alternate years.)
Degree Requirements
F3
HIST 214 Modern Europe
Credits:  4
Major Requirement: History of Europe
This course acquaints students with the major political, social, economic, and cultural forces that
have shaped the European continent as we know it today. While following a chronological
perspective and highlighting a familiar set of events--such as the French and Industrial Revolutions,
imperialism, communism and fascism, the two world wars, the Cold War, and the development of
the European Union--we will focus on a series of themes. We concentrate on the making of the
Nation, Class, Gender and Race in the long 19th century, and the often tragic fate of these modern
inventions in the 20th century. We trace the sometimes violent, complex, and interesting
circumstances of the peoples who constructed these modern Western notions. The successful
completion of this course will substantially enrich not only your understanding of Europe in the
world today, but some of the central categories and values that underpin how we have come to
structure our society and deﬁne ourselves.
Degree Requirements
F3
HIST 215 Enlightenment and Revolution:
Europe, 1714-1815
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits:  4
Major Requirement: History of Europe
The eighteenth century was an age of intellectual and political revolutions that destroyed what
historians describe as the Old Regime.This course critically assesses the rhetoric, goals and legacy
of the century’s key philosophic movement, the Enlightenment. It surveys the development of the
Old Regime in the eighteenth century and seeks to interpret the social, economic and intellectual
forces that tended to undermine it. Particular emphasis will be placed on the French Revolution,
the overthrow of the Old Regime, the Reign of Terror and the rise and fall of the Napoleonic system
in Europe.
Degree Requirements
F3
HIST 216 Industrialism, Nationalism, and
Imperialism: Europe, 1815-1914
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 4
Major Requirement: History of Europe
This course examines the impact of industrialization on the social, political, and intellectual life of
Europe. The combination of nationalist idealism and the realism of state power that produced the
uniﬁcations of Italy and Germany will be critically examined. The course will also examine the
nationalist and imperialist rivalries that drove the European states to the brink of war after the turn
of the century. (Course oﬀered in alternate years.)
Degree Requirements
F3
F8
HIST 217 The Age of Extremes: European
Culture and Society in the Twentieth Century
Term: Fall
Credits: 4
Major Requirement: History of Europe
By focusing on the experiences of ordinary people and signiﬁcant shifts in their values, we will
study how Europe evolved through what one historian has called an “age of extremes” in the
twentieth century. Central issues will include the experience and legacies of “total war,” daily life
under Nazi rule and in the Communist countries of Eastern Europe, the psychological impact of the
Great Depression, and the various ways in which people struggled to redeﬁne themselves as
Europe faded from a position of world dominance.
Degree Requirements
F3
F8
HIST 221 Athenian Democracy in Crisis
Term: Fall
Credits: 4
Major Requirement: History of Europe, Period prior to 1500
Athens was one of the most successful and exceptional states in antiquity because it developed
and sustained a liberal democracy at a time when monarchies and oligarchies dominated much of
the world. As fascinating as it is to trace the developments that contributed to the adoption of
democracy at Athens in 511 BCE, an even more fruitful enterprise, especially at a time when our
own democracy is becoming increasingly more precarious and fractured, is to study the manifold
changes in political, economic, and cultural life during the last third of the 5th century that led the
Athenians to take their democracy for granted and adopt undemocratic changes in their
constitution. This course will thus concentrate on the tumultuous period from 431 to 399, beginning
with the greatest "upheaval" of the age, the Peloponnesian War, which witnessed civil war and
political revolution, and ending with the trial and execution of one its greatest citizens, Socrates.
This period is particularly rich in primary sources, including Thucydides' magisterial history, law-
court speeches, comedies, tragedies, and inscriptions. While this course assumes no prior
experience with Greek history, mastering these sources is crucial for success in the course,
especially during the running of the "Reacting to the Past" game, The Threshold of Democracy:
Athens 403 B.C.
Degree Requirements
F3
HIST 222 Fall of the Roman Republic
Term: Fall
Credits: 4
Major Requirements: History of Europe, Period prior to 1500
Rome's transition from Republic to Empire, when power shifted from the Senate and People to
asingle emperor, is one of the most well-known periods of Roman history, involving a number
oﬀamous characters: Julius Caesar, Cicero, Pompey, Antony, and Augustus. In this course, we
willinvestigate the nature and causes of the fall of the Roman Republic. What was the Republic,
andwhy did it end? How did Rome come to be ruled by emperors? Focusing especially on the
lastcentury BC, we will examine Roman politics and society to ﬁnd answers to a question that
hasperplexed some of the greatest thinkers of the last two millennia: How does a proud
andpowerful republic slip into one-man rule?In the process, we will problematize the study of the
"fall", considering questions such as thefollowing: Was the Roman Republic really so diﬀerent from
the Empire? What are thecontinuities between these two eras, and where does the break really
occur? In our study of theRepublic, how does our knowledge of what happens next - the Empire -
enhance and distort ourunderstanding of late republican events?
Degree Requirements
F3
HIST 223 The Fall of the Roman Empire
Term: Spring
Credits: 4
This course will explore the transformations of the Mediterranean world from the late third century
to the seventh century C.E. Major themes to be discussed include the fall of the western Roman
empire, the barbarian invasions, the Christianization of the Roman empire, the emergence of
monasticism and the cult of the saints, and the rise of Islam. Major characters will include, for
example, Constantine, Augustine of Hippo, Attila the Hun, Stilicho, Benedict of Nursia or
Muhammad. We will place these characters against a concrete social, geographical and
archaeological context.
Degree Requirements
F3
HIST 224 British Empire and Its Enemies
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 4
Major Requirement: Global/Comparative History
This course addresses some of the major developments of the British Empire from the early 1600s
to the 1980s. Emphasis is on the changing nature of the empire, its role in Britain’s rise and fall as a
world power, the inﬂuence of empire on Britain’s political, economic, and cultural development,
and the imperial impact on Britain’s colonies and possessions. Attention is also directed at the
many enemies that the empire created, both in Britain and in the colonies. The course concludes
by examining aspects of post-colonialism in Britain and its former possessions. (Course oﬀered in
alternate years.)
Degree Requirements
F3
HIST 225 Modern Britain
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 4
Major Requirement: History of Europe
This course will introduce students to some of the major historical developments in Britain since
1688. The focus will be on political events, but some attention will also be paid to social, economic,
religious, and intellectual developments. Topics to be discussed include: Glorious Revolution of
1688-89; corruption and reform in eighteenth-century politics; origins, nature, and impact of
industrialism; evolution of parliament and emergence of the oﬃce of prime minister; impact of the
French Revolution; reform and radical movements of the nineteenth century; imperialism; the
British experience in World Wars One and Two; origins and nature of the welfare state; British
society and politics since 1945; and the Americanization of Britain. (Course oﬀered in alternate
years.)
Degree Requirements
F3
HIST 226 Musical Paris 1870-1940
Term: Fall
Credits: 4
Major Requirements: History of Europe
This course will examine of the relationship between French music and its political, social,and
cultural context by focusing on Paris as the center of new artistic developments in thelate
nineteenth and early twentieth centuries. /uni00A0The course will provide an introduction toFrench cultural
history, including artistic movements during this period, introducingstudents to musical composers
such as Fauré, Debussy, Ravel, Satie, and Stravinsky andhow they were situated within the events
of their day. /uni00A0Students will develop a vocabularyto describe and discuss musical works in general
and of this period speciﬁcally. /uni00A0Studentswill analyze musical works within the context of Parisian life
from 1870-1940.
Degree Requirements
F3
F5
HIST 229 Imperial Russia
Term: Fall
Credits: 4
Major Requirement: History of Europe
How and why did Russia become the center of the world’s largest land empire only to collapse so
suddenly in 1917? Beginning with the emergence of Rus and the development of the early
Muscovite state, this course delves into the Russian Imperial period, examining the growth of the
Russian Empire and highlighting certain topics, including the quest for modernization; the
relationship between Russia and the rest of the world (both East and West); the beliefs, traditions,
religion, and way of life of the Russian people; the rise of radical movements; and the revolution
that brought down the Romanov dynasty. We will focus especially on aspects of Russian culture:
literature, painting, and music. (Course oﬀered in alternate years.)
Degree Requirements
F3
HIST 231 North American in the Colonial and
Revolutionary Eras
Term: Spring
Credits: 4
Major Requirement: History of United States
This course investigates British, French, Spanish, African, and Native American encounters in North
America from the Age of Exploration through the early political development of the United States.
Major themes include the tensions between individual and community interests, the origins and
development of slavery, the emergence of capitalism, religious diversity, and the American
Revolution.
Degree Requirements
F3
HIST 232 The United States in the Nineteenth
Century
Term: Spring
Credits: 4
Major Requirement: History of United States
This course examines major social, political, economic, and cultural changes in the nineteenth
century, including U.S. relations with Native North Americans, antebellum reform, the Civil War,
Reconstruction, and industrialization. Major themes may include the rise and decline of
sectionalism and transformations in gender and race relations, as well as questions of
individualism and community, liberty and order.
Degree Requirements
F3
HIST 233 The United States in the Twentieth
Century
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 4
Major Requirement: History of United States
This course investigates major social, political, cultural, and economic changes in the twentieth
century, from Progressivism through the end of the Cold War. Major themes may include the eﬀects
of world war and economic depression on society, the United States’ changing role in the global
community, the rise and fall of American liberalism, the Vietnam War as watershed, and the
emergence of cultural pluralism.
Degree Requirements
F3
F8
HIST 239 New York and Its Peoples, Past and
Present
Term: Fall
Credits: 4
This course explores New York City by studying the migrants and immigrants who have settled
there since its founding. It explores how migrants and immigrants change New York, how the city
changes them, and the signiﬁcance of ethnic diversity in the city's politics and culture. We will read
scholarly writings, examine ﬁlms and music as primary sources, take ﬁeld trips to immigrant
neighborhoods, and visit museums devoted to migration and immigration. At every opportunity, we
will venture outside our classroom to learn about the city through direct observation.
This course is part of the NYC Internship Study Away Fall Semester Program
Degree Requirements
F3
HIST 242 African-American History
Term: Fall
Credits: 4
Major Requirement: History of United States
The experiences of African-American people in the United States can be described as a
continuous quest for empowerment; this quest has been aﬀected by myriad factors (e.g., gender
roles, class divisions, secular and non-secular ideologies, regionalism) in addition to racism. This
course, through the use of secondary and primary material, historical documentaries, and critical
analyses, will chart the historically complex journeys of African Americans, from the impact of the
African diaspora on colonial America to the Black student sit-ins and the formation of the Student
Non-Violent Coordinating Committee in 1960, and beyond.
Degree Requirements
F3
F9
Africana Studies Elective
HIST 243 The Civil Rights Movement
Term: Spring
Credits: 4
Major Requirement: History of United States
This course examines the social, political, and economic climate of the 1940s through the 1960s,
and considers how both Blacks and Whites were aﬀected. Speciﬁcally, the course will focus on
various organizations and the strategies they implemented which resulted in events such as the
Brown v. Board of Education case and the Civil Rights Act of 1964. Additionally, the course will
analyze the subtle and not-so-subtle reactions to initiatives that allowed African Americans to attain
many of the rights and privileges that have become commonplace in today’s society. (Course
oﬀered in alternate years.)
Degree Requirements
F3
Africana Studies Elective
HIST 247 The American South
Term: Fall
Credits:  4
Major Requirement: History of United States
This course examines the social, political, and cultural history of the South as a distinct region of
the United States. The course will include discussion of the origins of a slave society, the culture of
slavery and the Old South, the Civil War and Reconstruction, political and cultural change in the
New South, and the Civil Rights Movement.
Degree Requirements
F3
HIST 248 History of Memphis
Term: Fall
Credits:  4
Major Requirement: History of the United States
The city of Memphis has signiﬁcantly shaped the broader experiences of people in the United
States. This course provides an introduction to the major issues and themes that have formed the
history of the city and its people. Using a variety of sources, the course explores the signiﬁcant
political, social, economic, and cultural changes that have taken place in the region from the 18th
century to the present day.
Degree Requirements
F3
HIST 255 United States Political History, 1896-
1960
Term: Fall
Credits:  4
Major Requirement: History of United States
As the United States began its rise to the status of superpower in the 20th century, Americans also
began to fashion new political ideologies and policies to contend with changes in the expanding
nation. Students in this course will examine the origins of modern liberalism in the Progressive Era,
its rise and expansion during the New Deal, the challenges of 20th century conservatism, and
political debates during World War II and the Cold War. In addition, the course will focus on
changing campaign techniques, the importance of voting rights, and increased importance of
international relations in American politics.(Course oﬀered in alternate years)
Degree Requirements
F3
F8
HIST 256 United States Political History, 1960-
Present
Term: Spring
Credits: 4
Major Requirement: History of United States
What was the lasting legacy of “The Sixties”? What was the “Reagan Revolution”? How did
liberalism, one of the dominant ideologies of the 20th century America, get transformed into the
“L” word in current political debates? This course will attempt to answer these and other questions
surrounding modern American political history. Along with the emergence of the New Left and the
New Right, students will examine the inﬂuence of race in political debates, the arguments over the
size and scope of American government, and the direction of American politics in the 21st century.
(Course oﬀered in alternate years.)
Degree Requirements
F3
F8
HIST 261 Colonial Latin American
Term: Fall
Credits: 4
Major Requirement: History of Latin America
This course surveys the history of Latin America in the period before the Revolutions of
Independence (before 1810). After studying the Native American (principally Aztec, Inca, Chibcha
and Maya) and European (Spanish and Portuguese) civilizations that shaped theformation of
colonial Latin American history, the conquest, the institutions and the social history/movements
during this historical period will be addressed in a thematic fashion.
Degree Requirements
F3
F9
Latin American Studies Elective
HIST 262 Contemporary Latin America
Term: Spring
Credits: 4
Major Requirement: History of Latin America
This course surveys the history of Modern Latin America from the period of Independence (1810-
1824) to the present, addressing the economic and social development of the Latin American
region. Certain themes, such as religion, poverty, violence and foreign intervention will be covered
in depth. Feature ﬁlms, recent literature and oral history testimony will serve as “tools” for
understanding contemporary Latin America.
Degree Requirements
F3
F9
Latin American Studies Elective
HIST 267 Modern Mexico
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 4
Major Requirement: History of Latin America
This course is an introduction to the history of Mexico and we will study that nation’s history from
independence (the early 19th century) to the present. The course will move more or less in a
chronological fashion with further focus on themes of importance (immigration, for example).
(Course oﬀered in alternate years.)
Degree Requirements
F3
Latin American Studies Elective
HIST 271 Africa before 1800
Term: Fall
Credits: 4
Major requirement: History of Africa/Middle East; Period Prior to 1800
What is Africa? What does Africa's civilization tell us about global networks and system? How/uni00A0does
the history of Africa ﬁt into that of the rest of the world? This course will answer these questions
and map the general contours informing the continent’s history to 1800. Signiﬁcant themes include
cultural practices, origin of humankind, voluntary and involuntary internal migration and settlement,
technology and innovation, religious changes and transformation, farming and food production,
diseases and healing, political organization, and slave and “legitimate” trades, among others. The
course is structured to encourage active participation, and it will provide you with the research
tools to enhance your critical thinking and writing skills./uni00A0
Degree Requirements
F3
F9
Africana Studies Elective
HIST 272 Africa since 1800
Term: Spring
Credits: 4
Major requirement: History of Africa/Middle East
This course introduces students to contemporary Africa's socio-cultural, economic, and political
experiences. The course is not designed as a study of individual countries in Africa; it is a theme-
based course. Signiﬁcant themes include European colonialism and African nationalism, internal
and external migration and settlement, social identities and cultural changes, technology and
innovation, religious transformation, and diseases and healing, among others. In exploring themes
and trends that dominate Africa's contemporary storyline, we will learn quite a bit about a variety of
countries on the continent. The course is structured to encourage active participation, and will
equip you with research tools that are supposed to enhance your critical thinking and writing skills.
Degree Requirements
F3
F9
Africana Studies Elective
HIST 273 Disease and Healing in Africa
Term: Spring
Credits: 4
This course examines diseases and healing in Africa and Africa's response to mental (psychotic)
and physical (somatic) ills that plagued the continent from pre-history to mid-20th C. The course
explores diﬀerent healing practices and allows us to study how Africans have used science,
religion, and cultural practices (such as witchcraft) to treat and protect themselves from diseases.
The course also examines how state, power, and encounter inﬂuenced health and wellness. It is
designed to extend our intellectual curiosity to non-Western cultures and practices involving
medicine and human bodies.
Degree Requirements
F3
HIST 274 Ghana and West Africa's Pasts in the
Black Atlantic
Term: Fall
Credits: 4
This course will be coupled with an overnight ﬁeld trip to the north of the country, the origins for
many people who were enslaved and then brought to the Ghanaian coast for transport to the
Americas. Student will also visit Cape Coast, the site for two UNESCO World Heritage sites: the
“slave castles” Elmina Castle and Cape Coast Castle. This course provides an introduction to
slavery in Ghana and West Africa and the Atlantic slave trade out of West Africa. The course uses
Ghana as a window to explore the history and material culture of slavery and the Atlantic slave
trade in West Africa. It combines lectures, class discussions, documentaries, and ﬁeld trips to sites
of enslavement, slave markets and resistance to slavery and student analysis of contemporary
sources. Instead of presenting a comprehensive survey, covering every aspect of this vast subject,
this course takes a topical approach by focusing on a selection of themes and issues that are
crucial to developing an understanding of slavery in Ghana and West Africa and the slave trade
across the Atlantic. Themes to be covered include slavery and nation building in West Africa,
African and European agency in slavery and slave trade; slavery and slave trade in framing the
social structure of Ghana and West Africa; the legacies of slavery in Ghana and West Africa and the
ways in which slavery is remembered in Ghana and West Africa. Throughout the course, we will
pay attention to the debilitating eﬀects of slavery and the slave trade on West Africa and on its
development.
Degree Requirements
F3
HIST 275 The Making of the Modern Middle
East
Term: Fall
Credits:  4
Major Requirement: History of Africa/Middle East
This course is an introductory class to the history of the Middle East from Napoleon’s invasion of
Egypt in 1798 until the end of World War I. Investigating the history of this period provides the
necessary backdrop for understanding the intellectual vibrancy and political turbulence of the Arab
world in present day. The main question for consideration is which forces and what sort of
transformations shaped the region over the course of the 19th and early 20th centuries. By
exploring critical political, social, intellectual, and economic themes such as reforms, colonialism,
Arab nationalism, and the impact of Zionism, we will identify the main internal and external forces
and processes that shaped the modern Middle East. The course also examines the way historical
discourse is formed.
Degree Requirements
F3
F9
HIST 276 Re-Making the Twentieth-Century
Middle East
Term: Spring
Credits:  4
Major Requirement: History of Africa/Middle East
This course examines the history of Middle Eastern states and societies from World War I to the
present, including the Arab countries as well as Iran, Israel and Turkey. The course surveys the
main political, social, economic, and intellectual currents of the 20th-century Middle East and
provides a basis for understanding both the domestic and international politics of the region.
Topics include imperialism, nationalism, state and class formation, religion, Orientalism, women, the
politics of oil, the Arab-Israeli conﬂict, the Iranian revolution, the Gulf War and 9/11 and its aftermath.
Degree Requirements
F3
F9
HIST 277 Modern Islamic Thought
Term: Spring
Credits: 4
Major Requirement: History of Africa/Middle East
This course oﬀers a broad overview of important intellectual movements and orientations in the
modern and contemporary Islamic world since the 19th/uni00A0century. It examines the views of Muslim
thinkers as they have faced numerous challenges and upheavals that emerged in the modern
world. We will place these thinkers in the context of their socio-political settings and analyze their
interpretations as they have struggled to preserve, adapt, or redeﬁne Islamic ideas in the face of
changed conditions. Some of the intellectual traditions we will investigate include: Islamic
modernist thought, progressive Islam, Islamic fundamentalism, jihadist thought, Islamic feminism,
and Islam in America./uni00A0
Degree Requirements
F1
Africa/Middle East
F3
HIST 281 East Asia in the Modern World
Term: Fall
Credits: 4
Major Requirement: History of Asia
This course presents a survey of the modern experiences of ﬁve diﬀerent Asian nations: China,
Japan, Mongolia, Korea, and Vietnam. The emphasis will be on the period from World War II to the
present, to examine these diﬀerent countries’ experiences with nationalism, world war, civil war,
revolution, and modernization along with the tenacity of tradition. The course also will examine the
relationships among these nations and their signiﬁcance in the modern world.
Degree Requirements
F3
Asian Studies Elective
HIST 282 Traditional China
Term: Fall
Credits:  4
Major Requirement: History Asia, Period prior to 1500
Beginning with the earliest evidence of human civilization in the region, this course traces the
emergence of political states within China and their eventual uniﬁcation into a single empire, an
institution that persisted for millennia. Throughout this process the development of literature,
religion, philosophy, and material culture in Chinese society all played a role in shaping the
character of China today.
Degree Requirements
F3
F9
Asian Studies Elective
HIST 283 Modern China
Term: Spring
Credits:  4
Major Requirement: History of Asia
For millennia the Chinese viewed their emperor as the Son of Heaven and their empire as the
center of the world. Following Columbus and the Age of Exploration, however, in the sixteenth-
century Europeans began arriving in China in unprecedented numbers, precipitating a crisis in
Chinese society. This course examines the dynamics of China’s relationship with the outside world
and the subsequent transition that China made from empire to nation. Modernization continued in
the twentieth century and with it came social revolution and conﬂict with the United States, a
legacy that continues to inform our relationship with the world’s most populous nation.
Degree Requirements
F3
F9
Asian Studies Elective
HIST 287 Traditional Japan
Term: Spring
Credits:  4
Major Requirement: History of Asia
This course presents an examination of Japan’s history and culture from prehistoric times to the
mid-nineteenth century./uni00A0/uni00A0 Important themes will include Japan’s creation of a unique culture
through both isolation and cultural receptivity, the formation and preservation of enduring values,
the structure and transformation of Japanese society, the role of religions in Japanese culture,
Japan’s “cult of aesthetics,” and the tensions between civilian and military rule through the rise of
the samurai class and the ethics of bushidō (the “way of the warrior”).
Degree Requirements
F3
F9
HIST 288 Japan since 1800
Term: Spring
Credits: 4
Major Requirement: History of Asia
This course is designed to provide the students with a general understanding of Japan’s history
since 1800. Topics in this course include general issues in the process of modernization such as
industrialization, construction of mass culture, development of science and technology, and
modern formation of everyday life. This course also focuses on particular issues in modern
Japanese history such as the impact of the West, colonialism and imperialism, (post) war and
democracy. Although this course is a general survey, it intends to challenge the constructed
images of Japanese history and culture. For this purpose, issues on trans-national and trans-
cultural history will be considered throughout the course.
Degree Requirements
F3
F9
Asian Studies Elective
HIST 293 Ancient and Medieval India
Term: Fall
Credits: 4
Major Requirement: History of Asia, Period prior to 1500
This course explores India from the era of the Indus civilization through the death of the Mughal
Emperor Aurangzeb in 1707 CE. Topics include the Harappa culture, Aryan migrations and
emergence of Hinduism, Gangetic culture and rise of the Mauryan and Gupta empires, Islamic
invasions and creation of the Delhi sultanate, and the Vijayanagar Empire. The course concludes
with a close examination of the rise and fall of the Mughal Empire, one of the world’s greatest
empires. Considerable attention will also be devoted to religious, social, and cultural
developments, including the evolution of Hinduism, the caste system, Islamic culture in India,
religious reform movements, and architecture. (Course oﬀered in alternate years.)
Degree Requirements
F3
Asian Studies Elective
HIST 294 Modern India
Term: Spring
Credits: 4
Major Requirement: History of Asia
This course surveys the history of South Asia following the collapse of the Mughal Empire in the
early eighteenth century through the post-colonial period of the late twentieth century. Focus is on
political, religious, and socio-economic developments such as the post-Mughal political order; the
origins and nature of the British Raj; nationalism and the struggle for independence; religious
revival and political identity; partition and its aftermath; and the post-colonial order in India,
Pakistan, and Bangladesh. (Course oﬀered in alternate years.)
Degree Requirements
F3
Asian Studies Elective
HIST 300 The Historian's Craft: Methods and
Approaches in the Study of History
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 4
This course introduces prospective history majors and minors to the experience of how historians
perform their craft. Each seminar will address research methods, historical writing, and interpretive
analysis. Students will be introduced to historiography, the use of primary sources, and ethical
issues in writing history. Course work will culminate in an original research paper. An oral
presentation will also be required of all students.
Degree Requirements
F2i
HIST 305 Advanced Seminar on Special Topics
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 4
Advanced study of selected periods and topics in history. Varies with instructor. May be repeated
for credit when topics vary.
Prerequisite: Sophomore Status
HIST 307 Nature and War
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 4
Major Requirement: Global/Comparative History
This course investigates how wars have shaped the natural environment and how nature has
shaped war in the modern era. More than simply a look at the ravages of war on nature, this
course considers the complex relationship between humans and the natural world. The various
topics we will consider include chemical and biological warfare, repairing embattled landscapes,
the growing military-industrial complex, disposing of nuclear waste, and the increasing number of
conﬂicts over natural resources. Students will learn how to critically assess the ecological impact of
war, as well as its societal and political repercussions. (Course oﬀered in alternate years.)
Prerequisite: Sophomore Status
HIST 311 The Rise and Fall of Athens
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 4
Major Requirement: History of Europe, Period prior to 1500
This course oﬀers a comprehensive survey of the history of Athens from the age of Solon and the
birth of democracy in the 6th century BCE to the tumultuous post-Peloponnesian War period (404-
399), which saw the collapse of the Athenian empire, tyranny and foreign occupation, and the
execution of its greatest citizen, Socrates. Particular attention will be paid to the major political,
social, and cultural developments, as we try to understand the factors that contributed to the
growth and decline of Athenian civilization. Among the many themes and topics we will examine
are: the theory and practice of Athenian democracy; political dissent; imperialism and the Athenian
empire; the rhetoric of war; work and leisure; the position of slaves, foreigners, and women in
Athenian society; classical art and architecture; and tragedy as a “civic discourse.” (Course oﬀered
in alternate years.)
Prerequisite: Sophomore Status
HIST 312 The Fall of the Roman Republic
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 4
Major Requirement: History of Europe, Period prior to 1500
Rome’s transition from Republic to Empire, when power shifted from the Senate and People to a
single emperor, is one of the most wellknown periods of Roman history, involving a number of
famous characters: Julius Caesar, Cicero, Pompey, and Augustus. In this course, we will investigate
the nature and causes of the fall of the Roman Republic. What was the Republic, and why did it
end? How did Rome come to be ruled by emperors? Focusing especially on the last century BC,
we will examine Roman politics and society to ﬁnd answers to a question that has perplexed some
of the greatest thinkers of the last two millennia: How does a proud and powerful republic fall into
one-man rule? In the process, we will problematize the study of the “fall,” considering questions
such as the following: Was the Roman Republic really so diﬀerent from the Empire? What are the
continuities between these two eras, and where does the break really occur? (Course oﬀered in
alternate years.)
Prerequisite: Sophomore Status
HIST 313 The Roman Empire and Late Antiquity
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 4
Major Requirement: History of Europe, Period prior to 1500
This course studies the end of the Ancient World and the emergence of the Middle Ages. We start
with the Roman Empire at the peak of its power and proceed to study its dramatic crisis,
transformation and eventual fall. The barbarian invasions, the diﬀusion of Christianity, the
establishment of a powerful Catholic church, the emergence of new artistic traditions, and the rise
of Islam are some of the themes covered in this wide-ranging survey. Students will have the
opportunity to meet and understand characters such as Constantine, Attila the Hun, Augustine of
Hippo, Justinian and Muhammad. (Course oﬀered in alternate years.)
Prerequisite: Sophomore Status
HIST 320 Modern Jewish Thought
Term: Fall
Credits: 4
History of Europe
Beginning with the heretic Spinoza, we’ll examine the giants of Jewish thought—religious
reformers, philosophers, writers, and theologians wrestling with the challenges of modernity.
Topics will include: the essence of Judaism; the nature of law; religion and the state; Jewish
understandings of God and of evil; the status of women and non-Jews; and the legacy of the
Holocaust. We’ll discuss the Jewish Enlightenment; Reform, Orthodox, Conservative and other
Jewish denominations; Zionism and Israel; Jewish existentialism and the meaning of life; Jewish
philosophical and theological responses to the Holocaust; and Jewish feminism.
Pre-requisite: Sophomore Status
HIST 321 History of Existentialism
Term: Spring
Credits: 4
Major Requirement: History of Europe
An examination of prominent existentialists from the 19th and 20th Centuries. Issues include the
idea that human beings’ deepest desire is for meaning in their lives, and that the primary issue in
human life is whether and how we own up to this. Same as PHIL 360.
Prerequisite: Sophomore Status
/uni00A0
Degree Requirements
F1
History of Europe
HIST 327 Germany at War
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 4
Major Requirement: History of Europe
This course explores the ways in which war has shaped modern Germany. Students examine the
wars of German uniﬁcation in the nineteenth century, the two world worlds in the twentieth century,
and the hostilities between East and West Germany during the Cold War. Our concern is not with
tactics, battle history, or the deeds of great generals. Rather we consider the strains that war
caused in Germany society, including the tensions between democracy and authoritarianism, the
pressures of industrial might and socialist unrest, and conﬂicting notions of class, race, and
citizenship. Students will become acquainted with how war serves as a lever of change in the
making of a modern state. (Course oﬀered in alternate years.)
Prerequisite: Sophomore Status
HIST 342 Slavery in the United States
Term: Fall
Credits: 4
Major Requirement: History of United States
The purpose of this course is to attain a fundamental knowledge of one of the most complex and
controversial experiences in United States history. This course will examine various social,
economic, and political factors in an attempt to explain why slavery developed as it did. Also,
because slavery remained in the United States over such a long period (approximately 240 years),
we will discuss how it changed over time. (Course oﬀered in alternate years.)
Prerequisite: Sophomore Status
HIST 345 Civil Rights in Memphis
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 4
Major requirement: History of the United States
This seminar will examine the origin, growth and development of the civil rights movement in
Memphis. Using, music, documentaries, oral histories and secondary sources, students will
consider the various political, social, cultural and economic dynamics that led to the creation of a
movement in the Bluﬀ City. Additionally, the course will focus on various organizations and
individuals, and will seek to analyze the strategies they implemented in the pursuit of greater
freedom. Students will also assess reactions to the movement in Memphis, and the complex
legacy citizens of the city continue to contend with.
Prerequisite: Sophomore Standing
HIST 351 United States Constitutional History to
1865
Term: Fall
Credits: 4
Major Requirement: History of United States
This course examines American constitutionalism from the colonial era through the Civil War.
Topics include British constitutionalism, American revolutionary ideology, the Constitutional
Convention, the early nineteenth-century Supreme Court’s exercise of judicial review, and the new
republic’s attempts to deal with such issues as federalism, the separation of powers, the
government’s role in an expanding economy, and the fate of slavery in new territories. In contrast
to a constitutional law course, this class is more concerned with how American constitutionalism
both shaped and responded to larger political and social developments, and less concerned with
the evolution of constitutional doctrine in and of itself. (Course oﬀered in alternate years.)
Prerequisite: Sophomore Status
HIST 352 United States Constitutional History
since 1865
Term: Fall
Credits: 4
Major Requirement: History of United States
This course examines American constitutionalism from the Reconstruction period to the present. In
particular, the course focuses on the Supreme Court’s interpretation of the constitutional issues
surrounding Reconstruction and civil rights, industrialization and economic expansion, the rise of
national regulatory power, and the expansion of individual rights. In contrast to a constitutional law
course, this class is more concerned with how American constitutionalism both shaped and
responded to larger political and social developments, and less concerned with the evolution of
constitutional doctrine in and of itself. (Course oﬀered in alternate years.)
Prerequisite: Sophomore Status
HIST 363 History of U.S.-Latin American
Relations
Term: Spring
Credits: 4
Major Requirement: History of Latin America
This course provides an examination of the history of United States - Latin American relations,
beginning with tensions created by the Latin American Wars for Independence (1810-1824). U.S.
priorities, dating from the Monroe Doctrine of 1823, are studied in light of speciﬁc policies and
actions taken by the U.S. in the region. Speciﬁcally, the Mexican-American War, the Spanish-
American War, the Good Neighbor and The Alliance for Progress will be examined in depth.
Prerequisite: Sophomore Status
Degree Requirements
Latin American Studies Elective
HIST 364 History of Religion in Latin American
Term: Spring
Credits: 4
Major Requirement: History of Latin America
This course examines the history of religion and religious tradition in Latin America, beginning with
an analysis of pre-Columbian religious history and study of the imposition of Christianity with the
arrival of the Spaniards and Portuguese. Syncretic identity, politics and religion and the recent
growth of evangelical Protestantism in Latin America will be some of the major themes addressed.
(Course oﬀered every third year.)
Prerequisite: Sophomore Status
Degree Requirements
Latin American Studies Elective
HIST 365 Inﬁnite Border: The United States and
Mexico in Historic Perspective
Term: Spring
Credits: 4
Major Requirement: Global/Comparative History
This course is designed as an introduction to historical awareness, historical thinking, and historical
methodology. Our objective is to understand how the history of the Border (the border separating
the United States and Mexico) has shaped political, economic, historic and cultural realities, for
centuries, at a place that’s neither ﬁxed nor clear. Students will study primary documents, read
essays/literary accounts, and view ﬁlms to arrive at a more complete understanding of the history,
tragedy and possibility of the border.
Prerequisite: Sophomore Status
Degree Requirements
Global/Comparative History
Latin American Studies Elective
HIST 375 Islamic History and Civilization
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 4
Major Requirement: History of Africa/Middle East, Period prior to 1500 This course is a thematic
introduction to many of the events, ﬁgures, texts and ideas that have been central to Islamic
thought and identity over the centuries. While we will study many major historical events,
particularly in the early centuries of the Islamic era, the course is not intended as a comprehensive
historical survey; instead, we will focus on some of the pivotal moments that have been most
meaningful in the eyes of later generations of Muslims. (Course oﬀered in alternate years.)
Prerequisite: Sophomore Standing
Degree Requirements
F1
HIST 385 Nomads of Inner Asia
Term: Fall
Credits: 4
Major requirement: History of Asia, Period prior to 1500
This course examines the history of the pastoral nomadic peoples who have inhabited the
Eurasian steppe region since early times, with particular attention paid to the creation of nomadic
empires and their relations with sedentary neighbors in China, Europe, and the Middle East. The
course will focus on the histories of the Scythians, Xiongnu, Huns, Turks, and Mongols.
Prerequisite: Sophomore Status
Degree Requirements
Asian Studies Elective
HIST 389 The Vietnam War
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 4
Major requirement: Global/Comparative History
The Vietnam War remains a challenging subject. The profound impact that it had on the major
combatant nations (Vietnam and the United States) continued to be felt long after the war had
concluded. This course examine the Vietnam War through many lenses – social, cultural, and
political – in an eﬀort to gain a holistic understanding of this important and deﬁning historical
experience. We will approach the subject from multiple perspectives: not only those of the major
combatants but also those of other important “players” such as the People’s Republic of China, the
Soviet Union, and the neighboring nations of Southeast Asia. In addition to a consideration of the
war itself we will examine the causes of the conﬂict (including a discussion of French colonization,
Japanese occupation, rising nationalism in Southeast Asia, and conﬂicting notions of Vietnamese
nationalism), the war’s role in global politics and the Cold War, and its longterm consequences.
Prerequisite: Sophomore Standing
Degree Requirements
Asian Studies Elective
HIST 391 Gandhi
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 4
Major Requirement: History of Asia
This course explores the life and thought of Mohandas Gandhi. It traces his transformation from an
insecure Hindu aping British culture to a self-conﬁdent Indian leading a nationalist revolt that
captivated the world. This transformation is used to examine larger currents in Indian history, such
as the nature of cultural imperialism, the emergence of Hindu nationalism, and the story of India’s
independence movement. Attention is also directed at Gandhi’s views on Hindu-Muslim relations,
the emergence of Pakistan, and plight of the socalled Untouchables. The origins, nature, and
problems of his theory of non-violent resistance are also explored. The course concludes with a
brief examination of what happened to Gandhi’s ideas after Indian independence. (Course oﬀered
in alternate years.)/uni00A0
Prerequisite: Sophomore Status
Degree Requirements
Asian Studies Elective
HIST 395 The Imperial Idea
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 4
Major Requirement: Global/Comparative History
The past two decades have witnessed an explosion of scholarly interest in European imperialism
as a cultural and intellectual phenomenon. This course examines some of main currents of this
trend, focusing on the modern period and the British empire, which has drawn the lion’s share of
attention. The course will begin by examining how leading intellectuals in Europe and its colonies
engaged the idea of empire; the authors we will read may include John Locke, J. G. Herder,
Edmund Burke, J. S. Mill, George Orwell, and Frantz Fanon. After this, the course will turn to critical
studies of empire emanating from those engaged in literary discourse theory and
postcolonial studies. (Course oﬀered in alternate years.)
Prerequisite: Sophomore Status
HIST 405 Advanced Seminars on Special Topics
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 4
Advanced research seminars in selected topics in history. Varies with instructor. May be repeated
for credit when topics vary.
Prerequisite: Sophomore Status
HIST 421 Representing Racism in French
Literature and Culture: The Jewish Question
Term: Spring
Credits: 4
This course will explore the rich history of Jewish representations within and contributions to
French literature and culture. The class will consider how French Jews served as incubators of
cultural modernity. France was the ﬁrst country in Europe to Emancipate Jews from their ghettos,
oﬀering Jews civil rights and civic equality. But at the same time, France was a crucible for the
development of modern anti-Semitism. Jews appear as characters in novels, hosts of intellectual
salons, as actors on the French stage, as icons of ﬁnancial capitalism, as examples of the limits and
possibilities of immigration, integration and even assimilation, as authors and intellectuals, as
quintessentially French and Other to France. We will navigate these tensions through literature, art,
ﬁlm, and in their diverse historical contexts.
Prerequisite: Sophomore Standing
Degree Requirements
F4
F9
HIST 427 The Great War
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 4
Major Requirement: Global/Comparative History
This course explores the comprehensive impact of the First World War from a global perspective.
We will examine how aspects of the international system led to the outbreak of war in August 1914,
the experience of war around the world, interactions between civilians and soldiers, the tensions
between minorities and authorities, atrocities and genocide, and the attempt to establish a lasting
peace in 1919. Central to the course will be the ways in which the Great War shaped the twentieth
century. (Course oﬀered in alternate years.)
Prerequisite: Sophomore status
HIST 428 Fascist Europe, 1918-1945
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 4
Major Requirement: History of Europe
This seminar investigates one of the most tumultuous eras in European history by exploring the
political and cultural development known as “fascism.” Radicalized by World War and Depression,
adherents of this new political philosophy gained control of several European countries and
transformed them from liberal democracies to totalitarian states. Concentrating on culture and
society, we will explore why and how such groups came to power in countries including Italy and
Germany, what fascists believed, the elements of their programs, and the legacies they left behind.
(Course oﬀered in alternate years.)
Prerequisite: Sophomore Status
Degree Requirements
F8
HIST 429 Europe since 1945
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 4
Major Requirement: History of Europe
This course examines various aspects of European culture, politics, and society since World War II.
In particular, we investigate the legacies of war and Holocaust; the creation and collapse of Cold
War era communism; Europe’s relations with the rest of the world through decolonization,
immigration, and globalization; and multiple challenges to Western value systems. Students are
expected to read numerous works of historical scholarship, write a substantial analytical essay,
participate actively in class discussion, and give oral presentations in class. (Course oﬀered in
alternate years.)
Prerequisite: Sophomore Status
HIST 430 Cold War Culture in Europe
Term: Fall
Credits: 4
This course examines the Cold War -- the ideological, economic, and geopolitical struggle
between capitalism and communism after World War II -- by exploring how it shaped the daily lives,
perceptions, attitudes, and artistic expression of people across the European continent. Rather
than focusing on the US and USSR, we will think about the lived experience of a range of
Europeans on both sides of the “iron curtain” who found themselves caught in the middle of the
twentieth century’s great power struggle. We will use the story of the Berlin Wall as a touchstone
woven throughout the course as a way to understand what the Cold War meant to people in
concrete terms.
Prerequisite: Sophomore standing.
/uni00A0
HIST 434 The Early Republic of the United
States, 1789-1846
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 4
Major Requirement: History of United States
This seminar examines the political, social, and cultural history of the United States from the
adoption of the Constitution in 1789 through 1846. Particular attention is given to the constitution-
making the politics, religious revivalism and social reform, the formation of an American culture, the
rise of northern capitalism, and the rise of sectionalism. (Course oﬀered in alternate years.)
Prerequisite: Sophomore Status
HIST 435 The American Civil War and
Reconstruction Era, 1846-1877
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 4
Major Requirement: History of United States
This seminar will investigate the political, social, and constitutional developments surrounding the
American Civil War. Topics include the development of antebellum society in the North and South,
the rise of sectional political tensions, the social impact of the war on black and white Americans,
and post-war attempts to reconstruct the social, political, and constitutional order. (Course oﬀered
in alternate years.)
Prerequisite: Sophomore Status
HIST 436 The Origins of Modern America, 1877-
1918
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 4
Major Requirement: History of United States
This seminar deals with the social, economic, political, and constitutional development of the
United States from the Reconstruction Era through the end of World War I. Topics include the rise
of a corporate capitalist economic order, the creation of a post-Reconstruction southern identity,
tensions between black and white Americans, the United States’ involvement in Europe’s Great
War, and the rise of the national regulatory state. (Course oﬀered every third year.)
Prerequisite: Sophomore Status
HIST 439 Recent History of the United States
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 4
Major Requirement: History of United States
This seminar examines the evolution of American society since 1945. Special attention is given to
the Cold War, political developments, and the cultural transformation of the 1960s and 1970s, and
the resurgence of conservatism. (Course oﬀered in alternate years.)
Prerequisite: Sophomore Status
HIST 440 American Noir
Term: Fall
Credits: 4
In the 1950s, French ﬁlm critics used the term ﬁlm noir to describe a genre of black-and-white
Hollywood productions from the forties and ﬁfties that focused on darker themes of American life.
Inspired by hard-boiled detective ﬁction and the anxiety of the post-World War II era, these movies
reﬂected themes that were at odds with other notions of community and American beneﬁcence.
This course will use hard-boiled detective ﬁction and ﬁlm noir to understand American history from
the 1920s until today. The cultural products of American noir will be used to discuss American
violence, the Great Depression, gendered politics, the Cold War, race relations, and other topics.
Prerequisite: Sophomore Status
HIST 447 African American Activism
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 4
Major Requirement: History of United States
This course is a survey of African American activism in the United States from 1830 to the middle of
the twentieth century. During the semester, we will cover a range of issues and topics, many of
which will challenge traditional notions of what constitutes “activism”. The course is primarily
structured chronologically, which means that we will cover several dominant themes of African
American history, such as resistance to slavery, life in the Jim Crow South, racial violence, black
institution building, cultural responses to oppression, and the beginning years of the civil rights
movement. Throughout the course, we will use primary documents, books, oral histories, music
and websites to further illumine the themes, people and events that make up the content of the
course. In our explorations, it is important to remember at least two points: ﬁrst, that there has
always been a movement for black self-determination, participation and recognition in American
society, in short, a civil rights movement; and second, that the record of African American sources
must be read with this in mind. (Course oﬀered in alternate years.)
Prerequisite: Sophomore Status
Degree Requirements
Africana Studies Elective
HIST 449 Collecting Memphis Histories
Term: Spring
Credits: 4
Major Requirement: History of the United States
Memphis is one of the most fascinating cities in the United States, with a rich and complex history
that has not yet been fully explored. In this class, students have an opportunity to help tell that
story by conducting oral histories with community members and using them as the foundation for
an extended research paper. Additionally, students will gain a more general familiarity with the oral
history process. How and why do historians conduct them? What makes them good or bad? How
can we eﬀectively use oral histories in our scholarship? By examining these questions (and others)
in a Memphis-speciﬁc context, students will both enrich their understanding of the historian’s
process and signiﬁcantly add to the historical record of Rhodes’ home city.
Prerequisite: Sophomore Standing
HIST 456 Cold War America
Term: Spring
Credits: 4
Major Requirement: History of United States
This course surveys the United States’ involvement in the Cold War and how conﬂict with the
Soviet Union shaped postwar international aﬀairs, domestic politics, and American culture society.
Students will learn about the rise of the Soviet-American global rivalry and how this competition
played itself out in diﬀerent theatres. Readings will cover the growth of tensions over issues like
the Truman Doctrine or Communist control of Vietnam, as well as Cold War nuclear politics. Further,
the course will examine Cold War culture in the United States and discuss issues of consensus and
dissent in American society. (Course oﬀered every third year.)
Prerequisite: Sophomore Status
HIST 457 The History of HIV/AIDS
Term: Spring
Credits: 4
HIV (Human Immunodeﬁciency Virus) has drastically changed the landscape of public health,
medical science, and human sexuality and community since the virus was ﬁrst identiﬁed in 1984.
What came before this moment of scientiﬁc discovery, and what followed it? This course explores
the history of HIV and the illness it causes, AIDS (Acquired Immune Deﬁciency Syndrome), from its
probable origins in the Belgian Congo to its contemporary impact in the United States and around
the globe. In addition to histories of HIV/AIDS, students will examine primary sources by public
health and science professionals, safe sex advocates, HIV/AIDS activists, politicians, queer
theorists, artists, and writers that demonstrate that HIV/AIDS has a history and is connected in
myriad complex ways to issues including colonialism, globalization, sex work, LGBTQ identities,
racism, religion, healthcare access, and economic inequality. Assigned readings will address
HIV/AIDS around the world, but the ﬁnal outcome will be for students to write an original work of
historical research focused on Memphis or the U.S. South.
/uni00A0
Prerequisite: Sophomore Standing
Degree Requirements
F8
F9
Gender and Sexuality Studies Elective
HIST 460 Internship
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 4
On an individual basis and in conjunction with Career Services, students can receive internship
credit for work in various professional settings. Internships have been arranged in the past with a
variety of local law ﬁrms, non-proﬁt agencies, government agencies, and area corporations. The
typical internship experience, in conjunction with Career Services' Internship Class, receives four
academic credits. To enroll, students must be approved in advance by the instructor and Career
Services. (Does not fulﬁll the requirements of the major or minor. Taken pass-fail only.)
Degree Requirements
F11
HIST 461 Internship
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 2
Directed internship in law, business, government, or the non-proﬁt sector. To enroll, students must
be approved in advance by the instructor and the Oﬃce of Career Services. (Does not fulﬁll the
requirements of the major or minor. Taken pass-fail only.)
Prerequisite: Sophomore Status
HIST 481 Cold War in East Asia
Term: Fall
Credits:  4
Major Requirement: History of Asia
By reexamining the history and politics of the Cold War in East Asia, this course aims to broaden
our understanding of post WW II and contemporary East Asian society and culture. Instead of
following the conventional interpretation of the Cold War as ideological and political conﬂicts
between the United States and the Soviet Union, this course focuses on how major historical
changes in East Asia – Japan’s surrender in 1945, Mao’s Communist China, two “hot wars” (the
Korean War and the Vietnamese War) – shaped ideology oriented socio-cultural spaces and
regulated everyday life in East Asia. Another task of this course is to relate the history of the Cold
War to contemporary issues in East Asia such as the rise of China, nuclear crisis in North Korea and
post- Cold War East Asian regional community.
Prerequisite: Sophomore Status
Degree Requirements
Asian Studies Elective
HIST 485 Senior Seminar
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits:  4
The senior seminar is an examination of important themes and issues in the study and writing of
history, as seen through selected representative works drawn from diverse ﬁelds of historical
investigation. Emphasis will be on reading and discussion, with both written analyses and oral
presentations required. (Open only to senior history majors.)
HIST 490 Directed Research
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits:  4
Under the direct supervision of a faculty member, a student may pursue a research project of
his/her own design. The student must produce a substantive research paper in which he/she
engages substantially with primary sources. The paper should result in either a conference
presentation or submission for publication. This course can substitute for one of the 400-level
courses required for the major, but may not be repeated for credit. Must be arranged between a
faculty member and a student. Prerequisite: Sophomore Standing
Prerequisites
The Historian's Craft: Methods and Approaches in the Study of History
HIST 495 Honors Research
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 4
Must have departmental approval before undertaking Honors Research. (Does not fulﬁll the
requirements of the major or minor.)
Prerequisites
The Historian's Craft: Methods and Approaches in the Study of History
HIST 496 Honors Research
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 4
Must have departmental approval before undertaking Honors Research. (Does not fulﬁll the
requirements of the major or minor.)
Prerequisites
The Historian's Craft: Methods and Approaches in the Study of History
HIST 497 History Mentoring Practicum
Term: Fall
Credits: 2
This practicum experience allows advanced history majors to provide mentoring in historical
methodology, discipline-speciﬁc modes of historical writing, and community building activities to
students History 105, the department’s introductory topics seminars which enroll ﬁrst and second
year students./uni00A0 Mentors will hold oﬃce hours in order to provide 105 students with feedback and
assistance in conceptualizing, researching, and writing historical essays which conform to the
department’s speciﬁc expectations about historical scholarship./uni00A0 At the end of the semester,
Mentors will write a paper reﬂecting on their experience and providing advice for future Mentors.
Prerequisites
The Historian's Craft: Methods and Approaches in the Study of History
HIST 498 Research Assistantship in History
Term: Fall
Credits:  2
History research assistants assist faculty members in a variety of ways including conducting
bibliographical and archival research, copy editing, acquiring copyright permissions, conducting
oral histories, and other tasks related to the production of faculty publications.Prerequisite:
Sophomore Standing
Prerequisites
The Historian's Craft: Methods and Approaches in the Study of History
HUM 101 The Search for Values in the Light of
Western History and Religion
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits:  4
The Search for Values in the Light of Western History and Religion is an interdisciplinary study of
the ideas, beliefs, and cultural developments that have formed Western culture. The ﬁrst two
courses of the sequence are taken in the fall (Humanities 101) and spring (Humanities 102)
semesters of the ﬁrst year. In these courses, students examine original documents in translation
from the history and literature of the Israelites, the Greeks, the Romans, and the early Christians.
Selected texts from the Hebrew Bible are read and discussed in conjunction with the ideas and
themes of Mesopotamian and Greek culture. Students study the Gospels and selected letters from
the New Testament in conjunction with Hellenistic and Roman history, life, and thought.
In the third semester of the sequence, students trace the roles of biblical and classical heritages in
the shaping of the values, character, and institutions of Western culture and its understanding of
self and world.
To this end, they read and discuss selections from the works of philosophers, theologians, political
theorists, scientists, and literary artists from the Renaissance to the present. Courses in the second
year are organized by discipline or other theme. Choices include biology, classical studies, history,
literature, music, philosophy, politics, and religious studies.
Degree Requirements
F1
HUM 102 The Search for Values in the Light of
Western History and Religion
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 4
The Search for Values in the Light of Western History and Religion is an interdisciplinary study of
the ideas, beliefs, and cultural developments that have formed Western culture. The ﬁrst two
courses of the sequence are taken in the fall (Humanities 101) and spring (Humanities 102)
semesters of the ﬁrst year. In these courses, students examine original documents in translation
from the history and literature of the Israelites, the Greeks, the Romans, and the early Christians.
Selected texts from the Hebrew Bible are read and discussed in conjunction with the ideas and
themes of Mesopotamian and Greek culture. Students study the Gospels and selected letters from
the New Testament in conjunction with Hellenistic and Roman history, life, and thought.
In the third semester of the sequence, students trace the roles of biblical and classical heritages in
the shaping of the values, character, and institutions of Western culture and its understanding of
self and world.
To this end, they read and discuss selections from the works of philosophers, theologians, political
theorists, scientists, and literary artists from the Renaissance to the present. Courses in the second
year are organized by discipline or other theme. Choices include biology, classical studies, history,
literature, music, philosophy, politics, and/uni00A0religious studies.
Degree Requirements
F1
HUM 201 The Search for Values in the Light of
Western History and Religion
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 4
The Search for Values in the Light of Western History and Religion is an interdisciplinary study of
the ideas, beliefs, and cultural developments that have formed Western culture. The ﬁrst two
courses of the sequence are taken in the fall (Humanities 101) and spring (Humanities 102)
semesters of the ﬁrst year. In these courses, students examine original documents in translation
from the history and literature of the Israelites, the Greeks, the Romans, and the early Christians.
Selected texts from the Hebrew Bible are read and discussed in conjunction with the ideas and
themes of Mesopotamian and Greek culture. Students study the Gospels and selected letters from
the New Testament in conjunction with Hellenistic and Roman history, life, and thought.
In the third semester of the sequence, students trace the roles of biblical and classical heritages in
the shaping of the values, character, and institutions of Western culture and its understanding of
self and world.
To this end, they read and discuss selections from the works of philosophers, theologians, political
theorists, scientists, and literary artists from the Renaissance to the present. Courses in the second
year are organized by discipline or other theme. Choices include biology, classical studies, history,
literature, music, philosophy, politics, and religious studies.
Degree Requirements
F1
INTD 165 Introduction to Practice of
Mindfulness
Credits: 2
In this course, we will explore techniques for the cultivation of mindfulness and compassion.
Students in this class will practice these skills throughout the semester and will learn about their
philosophical and physiological aspects. We will consider the roles of compassion and mindfulness
in relationship to ourselves, to others, and to the Rhodes, Memphis, and global communities. (2
credits)
INTD 225 Geographic Information Systems (GIS)
Term: Spring
Credits: 4
This course introduces students to Geographic Information Systems (GIS) through the analysis of
spatial data. Students use deductive
reasoning and logic to interpret data, draw conclusions based on numerical and spatial data, learn
spatial statistics, and examine the
diﬀerent ways to represent data. Students also learn to construct, run and apply spatial models. An
emphasis is made on the application
of GIS to real-world situations.
Degree Requirements
F6
INTD 300 Leadership, Vocation, and Career
Term: Spring
Credits: 2
This course encourages and equips juniors and seniors to think about the overlapping and
intersecting concepts of leadership, vocation, and career. We will do so by discussing readings on
relevant topics and by hearing the stories of Memphis leaders, who will regularly visit the class to
discuss their own personal journeys. Comparing, contrasting, and connecting these concepts and
stories will be the primary purpose of the course, as student begin to launch their own careers
upon graduation. In addition, the course will emphasize professional etiquette and communication,
as well as help students to consider their own strengths and interests.
INTD 301 Pre-Law Practicum I
Term: Summer
Credits: 2
Students will be introduced to elements of the law school experience. For example, students will
review ﬁrst-year courses taken by law students with a summary explanation of each course and a
sample case from each course category, learn how to read and brief those cases like a law
student, and develop an understanding of the diﬀerent types of legal writing (memos, briefs,
motions, and opinions). This course is available for junior or senior students or by permission of the
instructor. This course is available for one credit on a pass/fail basis. Students may take this course
by itself or in conjunction with INTD 302: Pre-Law Practicum II.
/uni00A0
INTD 302 Pre-Law Practicum II
Term: Summer
Credits: 1
Students will be introduced to the elements of the law school application and law school
admissions test. Students enrolled in INTD 302 must register an account with the Law School
Admissions Council and the Law School Admissions Test Hub. In this course, students will take
practice tests and receive guidance on areas of improvement on test subjects. Students will learn
how to maximize their application through work on their personal statement essays and resumes
and will meet with law school admissions counselors to gain additional application guidance. This
course is available for one credit on a pass/fail basis. This course should be taken in the same year
as the law school admissions test and is most appropriate for juniors or for seniors who plan to
take a gap year. Students may take this course by itself or in conjunction with INTD 302: Pre-Law
Practicum I.
/uni00A0
INTD 322 Geographic Information Systems
Research Seminar
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 1-3
This course is designed for students who have already been introduced to the analytical tools of
GIS. Students will undertake a research
project under the supervision of one of the faculty teaching this course. The research project will
culminate in a paper and presentation.
The seminar will meet in an ongoing basis to exchange ideas, report on progress, and share
potential sources of information.
INTD 331 Theory and Practice of Scholarship
Grant Writing
Term: Spring
Credits: 1
This course is a workshop designed to assist students in the theoretical and practical aspects of
writing successful grants for postgraduate
scholarships and other competitive opportunities. Students learn about the various options
available, read scholarly literature on
grant writing, develop strategies for writing proposals and give and receive criticism on proposals
and projects. By the conclusion of the
course, students are prepared to compete for national postgraduate scholarships.
INTD 460 Interdisciplinary Internship
Term: Spring, Fall, Summer
Credits: 3-4
Health Profession Section
The Health Profession Section Internship Oﬀering is designed to introduce students to practical
applications of their academic work. Students may work oﬀ campus under professional supervision
in ﬁelds related to the health professions. Students will be required to integrate academic and
work experiences in a written report due at the end of the internship. No more than 4 credits per
semester for no more than two semesters; at least three hours involvement per week per credit.
Pass/Fail credit only. Prerequisites: Permission of the internship program director and instructor of
the Health Profession section.
Interdisciplinary Internship
An Interdisciplinary Internship may be designed for students undertaking internships in areas of
study in which there is no established department or program of study within the current
curriculum./uni00A0 Guidelines established for interdisciplinary internships align with college policies
regarding internships, and require approval from appropriate academic departments or programs,
as well as Career Services./uni00A0 Grading policy for these internships is determined by academic faculty
responsible for oversight of the project, and is most often based on the Pass/Fail grading option.
/uni00A0
Degree Requirements
F11
INTD 461 Interdisciplinary Internship (Health
Profession Section)
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 1-2
Similar to Interdisciplinary Internship (Health Profession Section) 460, but does not require a written
report and does not fulﬁll an F11 degree requirement. Prerequisites: Permission of the internship
program director and instructor of the Health Profession section.
INTD 485 Interdisciplinary Senior Seminar
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 4
This course is intended for the student who is pursuing an interdisciplinary, self-designed major. In
the event that the student is unable to
unify the senior seminar experiences of the departments involved in the major or to take each of
the department’s senior seminars, the
Interdisciplinary Senior Seminar will be utilized to serve as the culminating experience for the
major. It is intended to be an experience
that will show both a breadth and a depth of knowledge in the integration of the departments,
requiring both written and oral work.
INTD 486 Interdisciplinary Senior Seminar
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits:  4
This course is intended for the student who is pursuing an interdisciplinary, self-designed major. In
the event that the student is unable to
unify the senior seminar experiences of the departments involved in the major or to take each of
the department’s senior seminars, the
Interdisciplinary Senior Seminar will be utilized to serve as the culminating experience for the
major. It is intended to be an experience
that will show both a breadth and a depth of knowledge in the integration of the departments,
requiring both written and oral work.
INTS 110 Introduction to International Relations
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits:  4
A survey of contemporary international politics. Major topics covered in this course include
international political geography, the
evolution of the international system, the nation-state, modern diplomacy, international political
economy, international law and
organization, the East-West conﬂict, and North-South issues.
Degree Requirements
F3
F8
INTS 120 Introduction to Comparative Politics
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits:  4
An introduction to the principal theories, analytical approaches, and methods relating to the study
of comparative politics. Concrete country and case studies are used to highlight the relationship
between the tools of comparative politics and real world political events and processes.
Degree Requirements
F8
INTS 133 Model United Nations
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits:  1
Simulation of United Nations bodies (General Assembly, Security Council, Economic and Social
Council, etc.) in a controlled class
environment where debate and procedure are emphasized. Students engage in topical research
on political, economic, and social issues
of assigned countries and formulate position papers and resolutions for debate in the simulation.
The course meets one evening per week
for eight weeks. It may be repeated for credit up to a maximum of four (4) credits.
INTS 190 International Politics since 1945
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits:  4
Survey of signiﬁcant events and trends in the international system since 1945. Topics include the
origins, evolution, and end of the cold
war. The emergence of the post-cold war era, decolonization and East-West competition, the rise
of nationalism, the role of nuclear
weapons in world politics, changes in the global economy, and challenges facing the United States
today are also examined.
Degree Requirements
F3
INTS 220 Global Ecopolitics
Term: Fall
Credits:  4
An introduction to the ecological politics paradigm, an alternative approach to the study of
international relations. This course explores how environmental issues, population, disease,
technology, and globalization create both problems and solutions to traditional questions of
international relations (like war and peace, sovereignty, development, and power) and raise new
areas of inquiry./uni00A0
Degree Requirements
F8
INTS 221 Population and National Security
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 4
An exploration of the shifting meanings and interpretation of “security,” particularly the
securitization of population. The course covers a wide range of population topics, including aging,
migration, the youth “bulge,” urbanization, health, and the demographic “bonus.” Population trends,
their security implications, and their connections to issues such as development and the
environment are examined./uni00A0
Degree Requirements
F2i
INTS 222 Global Health Politics
Term: Spring
Credits: 4
This course introduces students to issues of global health viewed through the lenses of
International Relations and Comparative Politics. It emphasizes connections between economic,
social, political, and environmental factors and health outcomes. Students will examine the roles of
various actors in setting and addressing items on the global health agenda, including the nation
state, inter-governmental organizations, corporations, and other non-governmental actors. The
course is organized around 7 units that cover the history of global health, data and measurements
in the study of global health, governance, and policy and practice around global health. Three of
the units look at various frameworks common to International Studies: Political Economy &
Development, National and Human Security, and Human Rights. Throughout the semester, we ask
such questions as: Why do some health issues become issues of global concern, while others are
ignored? How have the epidemiological and demographic transitions shaped the health situations
in various nation states? What transnational health challenges exist and how has the international
community rallied together—or not—to address them? How have environmental and political
changes shaped health outcomes? What are the greatest challenges to global health on the
horizon and what are the best ways for actors to prepare for those challenges? This course is
ﬁrmly grounded in the theoretical perspectives of International Studies but is also suitable for those
with broad interests in Environmental Studies, Urban Studies, Biomathematics, Political Economy,
and Public Health.
/uni00A0
Degree Requirements
F8
INTS 235 Great Decisions in U.S. Foreign Policy
Term: Spring
Credits: 1
A review of important contemporary global issues. The course meets in the evening for two hours,
once a week for eight weeks. The teaching of this course is shared as each member of the
departmental faculty will typically deliver one lecture./uni00A0
INTS 243 Government and Politics of the Middle
East
Term: Fall
Credits: 4
Survey of historical and political trajectories of selected Middle East states, including Turkey, Iran,
Israel-Palestine, and the Eastern
(Mashreq) Arab world. The region’s history, inﬂuence of Islam, and ideological trends are
considered as are the roles of ethnic and
religious minorities, state building, economic and political liberalization, authoritarian rule, conﬂict,
and gender questions.
Degree Requirements
F8
F9
INTS 244 Issues in Middle East Politics
Term: Spring
Credits: 4
Survey of topical areas of signiﬁcance to Middle East politics. Possible topics include the treatment
of minority peoples, social
movements, and political ideologies in the region as well as the Arab-Israeli conﬂict and the
Kurdish dispute.
Degree Requirements
F8
INTS 245 US Foreign Policy in the Middle East
Term: Spring
Credits:  4
This course aims to understand the motivations behind and consequences of US foreign policy in
the Middle East both historically and today. It will cover issues, such as Cold War policies, the war
on terror, nuclear Iran debates, and post-Arab Spring regional context and instability.
Degree Requirements
F8
INTS 251 Government and Politics of Africa
Term: Fall
Credits:  4
An introduction to the complexity of the African political and socio-economic mosaic. The course
examines the political, economic, and
social transitions on the continent since the 1960s with particular focus on issues of governance
and socio-economic development in
selected countries. The role of both external and internal factors in shaping these political and
social dynamics provides the theoretical
focus for an investigation of present political economy and future possibilities.
Degree Requirements
F9
INTS 252 The Politics of Pan-Africanism
Term: Spring
Credits:  4
This course examines the origins and development of Pan-Africanism and its impact as a political
movement for the empowerment of
Africans in the Diaspora and the decolonization of the African continent. The role of the OAU/AU
as the basis of collective African security, diplomacy, regional economic integration, and
development is evaluated with a view to determining its achievements, problems, and prospects.
Particular emphasis is placed on the role of agency in hatching, animating, and orchestrating social
movements.
Degree Requirements
F9
INTS 253 Identity Conﬂict in Africa
Term: Spring
Credits: 4
A theoretical delineation of how ethnic groups are socially constructed and maintained through a
deliberate process of cultural
objectiﬁcation. The historical, political, religious and socio-economic roots of/uni00A0identity conﬂict in
Africa are examined. Conﬂicts such as
the Sudanese civil war; the Rwandan genocide; the Biafran civil war; conﬂict in the Great Lakes
region; post-election violence In Kenya
as well as ethnic strife in other areas are covered.
Degree Requirements
F8
INTS 254 South Africa through Documentary
Film
Term: Fall
Credits: 4
This course will use documentary ﬁlm to help understand the remarkable political transformation of
South Africa in the 20th century.
When the ﬁrst Europeans settled in South Africa in 1652 they laid the basis for a racial oligarchy
which only ended in 1994 with the
election of Nelson Mandela as President of a "New" South Africa. Heretofore South Africa had
been ruled by whites for the beneﬁt of
whites with a system of racial domination called apartheid (from 1948) and which kept the white
minority in power with a combination
of economic dependency, political exploitation, psychological manipulation and violent repression.
The inherent inhumanity of apartheid
created an international outcry and spawned a global human rights movement which, along with
internal political action by the black
majority, helped move South Africa toward a non-racial government. Essential to that movement
were images of life inside the apartheid
system which were seen via a set of documentary ﬁlms. The earlier documentary ﬁlms we will see
both not only showed the truth of
what happened on the ground but also became artifacts of the struggle itself. It is for this reason
that we will use documentaries to tell the
story of South Africa's transition from apartheid to freedom. The latter ﬁlms show how much needs
to be done before the promise of
equality in South Africa is realized.
Degree Requirements
F9
Africana Studies Elective
Film Studies Elective
INTS 255 Globalization and the Challenges of
Development in Ghana
Term: Fall
Credits:  4
This course will include site visits to locations within Accra that highlight fashion, food, and gender
and entrepreneurship. We will begin with a brief history of markets in Ghana as we begin to deﬁne
"What is Globalization?" From various interpretations and meanings of globalisation, we will
investigate globalization’s inﬂuence on society including cultural implications. We will discuss
topics such as transnationalism, agricultural developments, real estate, manufacturing, and even
alternatives to globalization. How does globalization interface with social justice movements and
women's rights? What part does Ghana play in international relations for the local region and
continent of Africa? We will answer these and other questions as we explore our global Ghana.
INTS 256 Weapons of Mass Deception: Political
Propaganda in Film
Term: Fall
Credits: 4
/uni00A0
Critically analyze the ethics and rationale for using ﬁlm as political propaganda to exert
control,manipulate policy, and conduct war in totalitarian and democratic Germany and the
UnitedStates during the 20th/uni00A0century. Historical and contemporary ﬁlms are drawn from several
nations including the United States, Germany, United Kingdom, Qatar, and Russia./uni00A0
Degree Requirements
F2i
INTS 260 Summer Study in China
Term: Summer
Credits: 4
A six week study program in China. Emphasis is placed on the language, culture, history, politics,
and economy of China. Students
should contact the I.S. Department and/or the International Programs Oﬃce for additional details.
Degree Requirements
F11
INTS 261 Government and Politics of China
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 4
A study of the political system of the People’s Republic of China, including an examination of the
three centers of power (party, government, and military), ideology, leadership, political change,
provincial and local governments. The Chinese political system is assessed as a unique communist
system and one that is changing due to rapid economic development. Current political problems
are also analyzed.
Degree Requirements
F9
INTS 262 China's Foreign Policy
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 4
An analysis of China’s foreign policy from 1949 to the present. Particular emphasis is placed on
China’s relations with the United States, Russia, Japan and Europe, its bid to lead the Third World
bloc, Beijing’s eﬀorts to adjust to a new world order and its new role as an economic power.
Degree Requirements
F9
INTS 263 Comparative Political Economy of East
Asia
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 4
A comparative study of the interactions between politics and the economy in Japan, South Korea,
and Taiwan. Major topics covered
include developmental states, state-society interactions, state-business relations, labor politics,
economic and political development, and
welfare politics.
Degree Requirements
F8
INTS 264 China-Taiwan-U.S. Relations
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 4
An exploration of the political and economic dimensions of China-Taiwan relations as well as the
role played by the U.S. in these
relations. Major topics covered include Sino-U.S. relations, Chinese nationalism, identity politics in
Taiwan, Taiwan Strait Crises, the
U.S. approach to China-Taiwan relations, China’s Taiwan policy, Taiwan’s China policy, and
economic ties between China and Taiwan.
Degree Requirements
F8
INTS 265 Topics in International Studies
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 4
Concentrated study on issues of special importance in international aﬀairs. Recently oﬀered topics
include Modern Islamic
Fundamentalism, International Development, Ethnic Conﬂict, Terrorism, and International Drug-
Traﬃcking.
INTS 266 Topics in International Studies
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 4
Concentrated study on issues of special importance in international aﬀairs. Recently oﬀered topics
include Modern Islamic
Fundamentalism, International Development, Ethnic Conﬂict, Terrorism, and International Drug-
Traﬃcking.
INTS 270 Research Methods in International
Studies
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 4
This course examines various methods used in the study of international relations and comparative
politics. The formulation and design of research projects is emphasized. Basic analytical concepts
and techniques are introduced as students explore various approaches to the study of world
politics.
Prerequisites
Introduction to International Relations
Introduction to Comparative Politics
INTS 273 Government and Politics of Latin
America
Term: Fall
Credits: 4
An introduction to Latin American politics. Military rule, human rights, democratization, populism,
and the politics of gender, class, and ethnicity are examined in relation to speciﬁc countries in the
region. The course then explores the political dimensions of development, poverty, and inequality.
Emphasis is placed on the most important conceptual and theoretical frameworks used to
understand politics and governance in Latin America.
Degree Requirements
F8
INTS 274 Contemporary US-Latin American
Relations
Term: Spring
Credits: 4
A survey of Inter-American aﬀairs, with a focus on past and present relations between Latin
American countries and the United States.
The course examines the consequences of U.S.-Latin American relations for democracy, human
rights, and economic prosperity in the
Western Hemisphere. Relevant themes include democracy promotion, immigration, and trade. The
course combines case studies of
speciﬁc countries, policy analysis, and historical/theoretical perspectives on Inter-American
relations.
Degree Requirements
F8
INTS 280 Summer Study in Europe
Term: Maymester
Credits: 4
An examination of the reasons and consequences of the twin crises in Europe: the economic and
the refugee creses./uni00A0 Particular attention will be given to the motives and impact of Brexit and the
Greek economic and refugee crises.
Degree Requirements
F8
F11
INTS 281 Government and Politics of Western
Europe
Term: Fall
Credits: 4
A comparative study of the government and politics of Europe. Emphasis is given to the evolution
of parliamentary democracy,
governmental, political, and social institutions, disparate decision-making patterns, and diﬀerent
political cultures. A special segment is
devoted to the evolution of the European Union and the current level of European integration.
Degree Requirements
F8
INTS 282 Politics of European Integration
Term: Spring
Credits: 4
An examination of the evolving European integration process, institutions, and policymaking
procedures, and the interaction between
national and "European" interests and political outcomes. The development of Europe as a
"community of values" and the fostering of a
"European" identity are examined in the context of the European Union's growth as a political
community and its relations with nonmember
states.
Degree Requirements
F8
INTS 283 Introduction to International Business
Cases
Term: Summer
Credits: 4
This travel/study course is a combination of lectures, case discussions, and site visits in Antwerp,
Belgium. Students should contact the
Economics and Business Department and/or the International Programs Oﬃce for additional
details. The course is the same as Business
283.
Degree Requirements
F11
INTS 284 Russia and Eurasia
Term: Spring
Credits:  4
A study of countries comprising the former USSR. The course discusses the politics of reform, as
well as the domestic, foreign, and
security policies of the successor states, and the context of the changed global power equation
after the Cold War.
Degree Requirements
F8
F9
INTS 285 Putin's Russia and the Media
Term: Spring
Credits:  4
This course examines mainstream and independent media sources, literary works, and ﬁlms in
order to ﬁnd the authentic Putin and dynamic contemporary Russia. Unraveling over a century of
attempts by the West to penetrate and remake Russia, we will apply theoretical frameworks
appropriate to the speciﬁc forms of communication and expression (journalism, literature, and ﬁlm)
in order to better understand the real, instead of parodied or demonized, president and the
country he has steered since the beginning of the millennium. The course is the same as Russian
285.
Degree Requirements
F9
INTS 294 Encountering Other Cultures: Pre
Departure
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits:  2
This course prepares students for their study abroad experiences and helps them derive maximum
beneﬁt from their time abroad. Studying in a diﬀerent country and academic setting can be exciting
and life-changing. It can also be confusing because learning the skills needed to transition to new
cultural contexts and to develop intercultural competence simply takes time – and preparation. We
will cover topics such as: establishing skills for abroad and linking them to your future,
understanding your personal cultural identity and worldview in relation to your host culture,
adapting in periods of acculturation, and engaging with your host culture/country.
/uni00A0
INTS 295 Encountering Other Cultures: The
Return
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 2
This course welcomes students back from their semester/year abroad and facilitate re-entry to
Rhodes. Students will identify their new intercultural competencies, explore the cultural learning
they’ve gained through their study abroad experiences, and extend and apply that learning in new
situations. Focus will be placed on using new skills in old settings, reﬂecting on internal changes
and the student’s cultural adaptation experiences, and folding the student’s new academic
knowledge into the Rhodes classrooms and conversations. By the end of this class, students
should have a ﬁrm understanding on how to keep transforming their study abroad experiences
into vibrant parts of their story for application in present and future life.
/uni00A0
INTS 300 International Relations and
Comparative Politics Theories
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 4
An examination of the major theoretical paradigms and approaches in the study of international
politics and/uni00A0comparative politics. Prerequisites: INTS 110 and INTS 120, Junior or Senior Standing.
Prerequisites
Introduction to International Relations
Introduction to Comparative Politics
INTS 310 Comparative Political Economy
Term: Fall
Credits: 4
Comparative political economy bridges the gap between comparative politics and political
economy. This course examines the role of markets, states, power and institutions in varying
domestic political contexts by comparing them on a cross-national basis. Divergent institutional
structures (e.g., social policy approaches, tax and regulatory policies, corporate governance
arrangements) commonly seen in three archetypical country cases of Germany, Sweden and the
United States are considered as is their impact national economic and political outcomes. The
course examines multiple frameworks, tools and insights of comparative political economy to shed
attention on the ideas, interests and institutions underpinning various national approaches.
/uni00A0
Prerequisites
Introduction to Comparative Politics
INTS 311 International Political Economy
Term: Spring
Credits: 4
An overview of major issues and theoretical paradigms in international political economy, including
interdependence, foreign economic
policymaking, the evolution of the international ﬁnancial system, the role of multinational
corporations, and issues in the North-South
dialogue. Emphasis is on the variety of ways in which political and economic forces interact to
aﬀect ﬂows of goods, services,
investments, money and technology.
Degree Requirements
F8
Prerequisites
Introduction to International Relations
INTS 330 Women in World Politics
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 4
This course examines contemporary political developments that have aﬀected women around the
world, including the “War on Terror,” armed conﬂicts, sex traﬃcking and tourism, migration, and
democratization. In addition to investigating the gendered eﬀects of policies, we analyze women
as political actors in their own right. Their participation in both violent and non-violent struggles will
be discussed. Revolutionaries, protesters, environmentalists, motherist movements, presidents,
and members of parliament: these are but a few examples of the diverse expressions of women’s
politics./uni00A0
Degree Requirements
F2i
F8
INTS 332 The Politics of Social Movements and
Grassroots Organizing
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 4
This community-integrative course introduces students to the politics of social movements and
activism both within the United States
and abroad. The main focus will be urban-based movements seeking to represent communities
who have been politically marginalized
on the basis of class, race, ethnicity, gender and/or sexuality. Students will investigate the
strategies participants in such movements use
to identify pressing social problems, to mobilize support for their cause, and to inﬂuence policy
making. Comparative analysis of
local/national forms of activism and movements that have emerged overseas is central to the
course. All students will engage in
community-based learning by working with local organizations involved in advocacy.
Degree Requirements
F8
F11
INTS 334 Religion and Politics
Term: Spring
Credits:  4
Religious politics is on the rise: sectarian conﬂict is destabilizing the Middle East, Hindu and Jewish
ethno-religious parties are
challenging liberal democracies through democratic systems, the Christian Right in the US has
become a crucial player in local and
national politics, Christian Democrats in Europe are leading governments, the Catholic Church is
reorienting itself with a new global
mission, Evangelical Protestantism is spreading widely and quickly in Latin America and Africa,
religious liberties are still a human
rights issue in China, and radical transnational religious movements, such as Al Qaeda and ISIS,
are challenging the international system based on nation-states. In this class, we will address this
rise of religious politics through: (1) the lenses of comparative politics theories and discuss issues
such as the role of religion in democratization, civil wars, national identity, and post-conﬂict
reconciliation, and (2) the lenses of international relations theories and discuss issues such as the
global rise of radical religious movements, the role of religion in
foreign policy making and regional conﬂicts.
Degree Requirements
F8
F9
INTS 336 International Human Rights
Term: Spring
Credits:  4
This course will examine many of the complex and controversial issues regarding the emergence
of the contemporary international
human rights regime. Among these issues are: What is the purpose of human rights? What should
their content be? When do violations
of human rights warrant intervention across national boundaries? Is there a single moral foundation
for human rights that spans many
cultures or are there many culturally speciﬁc moral foundations, or none? In what sense, if any, are
human rights universal? We begin
with a brief look at the philosophy of rights, discussing how to deﬁne rights in general and human
rights in particular. Using Mary Ann
Glendon’s study of Eleanor Roosevelt and the drafting of the Universal Declaration of Human
Rights as a point of departure, we also
review existing international treaties on human rights. Our class discussions will focus on rights
about which there is a great deal of
international consensus (such as the right not to be tortured) and rights over which there is much
disagreement (such as the right to health
care). We will also discuss whether rights are accorded to individuals or groups and how rights are
guaranteed. We conclude with a
consideration of what makes for a successful human rights campaign (e.g. South Africa) and what
challenges are faced by “new”
campaigns such as women’s rights, LGBTQ rights, and the rights of the child?
INTS 340 The Politics of Migration
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 4
This course explores how international migration challenges notions of identity, citizenship, and
economic livelihood and how migrants engage in transnational social practices through travel,
communication, and ﬁnancial transfers. It examines whether the international regime to deal with
migration is adequate to meet today’s challenges, including refugees and traﬃcked persons, and
how the cultural challenges of integration diﬀer across countries, particularly in liberal states. This
course may be sequenced with INTS 221: Population
and National Security for the purposes of the IS minor.
Some sections may satisfy the F11./uni00A0/uni00A0
Degree Requirements
F8
INTS 341 Comparative Ecopolitics
Term: Spring
Credits: 4
This course examines the question why diﬀerent countries and communities end up with diﬀerent
approaches to the same environmental
and population problems. Using a comparative lens, we look for the answer in diﬀerent roles of
social movements and advocacy; regime
type; political culture and institutions; the policymaking process; and economic development. This
course may be sequenced with INTS
220: Global Ecopolitics for the purposes of the IS minor.
Degree Requirements
F8
INTS 371 American Foreign Policy
Term: Spring
Credits: 4
This writing intensive course examines the basic elements of American foreign policy (AFP) since
World War II. This course explores the tension between two basic questions. First, the United
States is the preponderant power on the world stage since the end of the Cold War. How can it
use unipolarity to best serve its interests? Second, American power is waning as it defuses to other
states and other types of actors. How can the United States best prepare for multipolarity? To
explore this tension, this course explores relevant international relations theory and its application
to major concerns in AFP – including war, international institutions and organizations, decision
making, polarity and alliances, terrorism, and climate change. Students are expected to apply
these concepts to a topic of their choosing under the umbrella of AFP and to write an intensively
researched and thesis-driven term paper on the topic.
/uni00A0
Degree Requirements
F2i
INTS 372 U.S. National Security Policy
Term: Spring
Credits: 4
This course examines the evolution of American military power and U.S. national security policy in
the twentieth century. Emphasis is
placed on the dynamics of policy formation, the interaction of foreign and defense policy, and the
impact of domestic politics and the
changing international environment on the policy process. Various strategic theories, assumptions
about national security policy, and
dilemmas regarding the use of force are also examined.
Degree Requirements
F8
INTS 373 Terrorism and U.S. National Security
Term: Fall
Credits:  4
An examination of the impact of terrorism on U.S. national security in the post-9/11 environment.
The impact of 9/11 on U.S. security policy is considered, including the threats posed by terrorism to
the homeland and to U.S. interests abroad, U.S. responses to terrorism, and long-term implication
of the Global War on Terrorism strategy for U.S. global power position.
INTS 374 Security Studies
Term: Fall
Credits:  4
An examination of how Security Studies have evolved over the years, covering both traditional and
non-traditional areas of security. It
examines a range of concepts from “hard security” to such ideas as energy security, economic
security, cyber security and human
security. The problem of preventive war, deterrence, mass suicide terrorism, nuclear proliferation
unconventional war, and globalization
are also considered.
INTS 420 Revolution in World Politics
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits:  4
This course examines the concept and theories of revolution; the development of processes
involved in revolutionary political
movements, and the consequences and ramiﬁcations of revolutionary political change. Historical
case studies are employed to analyze
the speciﬁc revolutionary role of such contributive factors as human agency, mass mobilization,
state breakdown, international dynamics,
and the prevailing social and cultural environment.
Degree Requirements
F3
INTS 421 Democratization in World Politics
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits:  4
An examination of the global expansion of democracy in recent decades. The course analyzes the
processes of democratic transition, consolidation, and deepening. Relevant themes include civil
society, political institutions, culture, and economic development. A variety of countries in Africa,
Asia, Latin America, the Middle East, and the former Soviet Bloc are explored. Particular attention is
given to theories of democratization within the ﬁeld of comparative politics.
INTS 422 International Conﬂict Management
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 4
A survey of theoretical explanations of international and regional conﬂicts and an analysis of the
practicalities of conﬂict management
and resolution through negotiation, mediation, adjudication, and various other forms of third party
intervention. Emphasis is placed on
historical origins of conﬂict; its ethnic, religious, geographic, and political dimensions; and the
complexities of conﬂict management and
resolution on the part of international actors.
Degree Requirements
F8
INTS 423 The Rise of Authoritarianism
Term: Spring
Credits: 4
A new authoritarian wave is sweeping world politics today: the mass uprisings of the Arab Spring
have reproduced authoritarian regimes, consolidated democratic regimes are increasingly
becoming illiberal, and new democracies are centralizing power through populist rhetoric. This
course will address such rise in authoritarianism by asking how authoritarian regimes emerge,
survive, co-opt, and mold their citizens. Thus, the aim of this course will be to understand the
multiplicity of authoritarian politics and its inﬂuence through theoretical discussions. These
theoretical discussions will also be coupled with case studies from across the Middle East, North
Africa, and Southeast Asia. Within this framework, this course will be organized into three parts.
Part 1 will question what leads to the rise of authoritarian regimes and how democracies break
down. Part 2 will discuss how authoritarian regimes consolidate their power by using ideology, law,
media, and violence. Part 3 will examine how authoritarian regimes weaken, what leads to mass
uprisings, and when they democratize.
/uni00A0
Degree Requirements
F8
F9
INTS 451 The United Nations
Term: Fall
Credits: 4
An examination of the history, structure and evolution of the United Nations and analysis of
procedures of international cooperation in key issue areas, including the peaceful settlement of
disputes and collective security, human rights, population, the environment, and economic well-
being.
Prerequisites
Introduction to International Relations
INTS 452 International Law
Term: Spring
Credits: 4
A study of the sources and development of international law with particular focus on examination
of the core domains of the law
including international human rights law; diplomatic law; the law of treaties; international criminal
law; international environmental
law; as well as the law of the sea, among others. The course seeks to address questions such as;
what are the sources of international
law? Who makes international law and how is it legislated? What are the rights and duties of
subjects of international law? Who
enforces international law and how? Towards this end, speciﬁc legal cases are delineated and
discussed with a view to demonstrating the
practical application of international law and the diﬃculties associated with enforcing international
law.
Degree Requirements
F8
INTS 460 Internship in International Studies
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 3 or 4
On an individual basis and in conjunction with the Career Services Oﬃce, students can receive
internship credit for work in various professional settings. Internships have been arranged in the
past with a variety of local law ﬁrms, non-proﬁt agencies, government agencies, and area
corporations. The typical internship experience receives four academic credits. Student interns are
expected to keep a regular log of their activities and write a ﬁnal paper reﬂecting on their
experience.
Degree Requirements
F11
INTS 461 Internship in International Studies
Term: Spring, Fall, Summer
Credits: 1-2
On an individual basis and in conjunction with the Career Services Oﬃce, students can receive
internship credit for work in various professional settings. Internships have been arranged in the
past with a variety of local law ﬁrms, non-proﬁt agencies, government agencies, and area
corporations. Students enrolled in INTS 461 typically receive 1 or 2 academic credits and take the
course on a pass/fail basis. Student interns submit short assignments reﬂecting on their
experiences and meet with the instructor of record.
/uni00A0
INTS 470 Summer Internship Abroad
Term: Summer
Credits: 1, 2
The Mertie W. Buckman International Internship Program provides an opportunity for outstanding
International Studies majors and International Studies-related Interdisciplinary majors to spend two
months abroad while working on an internship project approved by the International Studies
faculty. The internships, which seek to give students a practical exposure to international politics
and economics, are awarded on a competitive basis.
Degree Requirements
F11
INTS 485 Senior Tutorial
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 4
Conducted as a tutorial in seminar format, this course assists students in intensive research and
the completion of the Senior Paper and an oral presentation of the Senior Paper based on topics
chosen by students and approved by the faculty member in charge of the seminar. Social science
research methods and theories used in the study of international relations and comparative politics
are also discussed.
Prerequisites: Senior Standing; and INTS 270 or permission of the instructor
INTS 495 Honors Tutorial
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 4
An Honors version of International Studies 485, this tutorial will consist of individual research and
writing of the Honors Project.
Students should consult with an International Studies faculty or staﬀ member about their intentions
to pursue an honors project at the
beginning of the fall semester of the senior year (or earlier) and obtain a copy of the “Honors in
International Studies Guidelines.”
INTS 496 Honors Tutorial
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 4
An Honors version of International Studies 485, this tutorial will consist of individual research and
writing of the Honors Project.
Students should consult with an International Studies faculty or staﬀ member about their intentions
to pursue an honors project at the
beginning of the fall semester of the senior year (or earlier) and obtain a copy of the “Honors in
International Studies Guidelines.”
LATN 101 Elementary Latin
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 4
This series of courses introduces students to the fundamentals of the Latin language. Although the
primary goal of the elementary
sequence of courses through Latin 201 is to prepare students to use Latin documents in a wide
variety of academic contexts, students will
develop all four language skills: reading, writing, listening, and speaking.
LATN 102 Elementary Latin
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits:  4
This series of courses introduces students to the fundamentals of the Latin language. Although the
primary goal of the elementary
sequence of courses through Latin 201 is to prepare students to use Latin documents in a wide
variety of academic contexts, students will
develop all four language skills: reading, writing, listening, and speaking.
LATN 201 Intermediate Latin
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits:  4
This course concludes the elementary language sequence and prepares students for more
advanced work in the language. During this
course students will begin making the transition from graded selections in the elementary texts to
authentic ancient texts from a variety
of Latin authors and genres from antiquity to the modern period. In addition to developing their
ability to comprehend and interpret
ancient texts, students will continue to work on their aural-oral proﬁciency.
Degree Requirements
F10
Prerequisites
Elementary Latin
LATN 202 Latin Rhetoric
Term: Spring
Credits:  4
In keeping with the pedagogy of the ancient schools of rhetoric, this course will provide an analytic
and comprehensive review of the
structures of the language. Students will work toward ﬂuency in reading, composition, and
conversation.
Degree Requirements
F2i
F10
LATN 232 Latin in Rome
Term: Summer
Credits: 4
An intensive reading course examining works of Latin literature pertinent to the study of the
topography of Rome. Selections will come
from Roman historians, poets, orators, and inscriptions. Class meetings will take place in the city of
Rome. Students will visit and
analyze sites described in the primary literature; inscriptions review in situ where possible, and
study the textual tradition through
available manuscripts.
LATN 265 Topics in Latin Literature
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 1-4
In this course advanced students of Latin will read and analyze texts from major works of literature.
It will feature materials organized
thematically, generically, by period, or by author. Texts in this course will generally represent
signiﬁcant documents for the study of the
cultural and literary history of Roman society and may also be the subjects of study in other
courses oﬀered at Rhodes both by GRS and
other disciplines. The course will help students develop greater reading ﬂuency and expand their
understanding of interpretative
approaches. The course will generally be taught as a four-credit course. Students in special
circumstances may take the course for one,
two, or three credits with the permission of the instructor. The course may be repeated for credit if
the topic diﬀers.
Degree Requirements
F4
F10
Prerequisites
Intermediate Latin
LATN 291 Latin Literature from the Early
Republic
Term: Fall
Credits:  4
This course, making extensive use of resources available via the internet, focuses on the earliest
literary documents in the Latin
language. Readings will come primarily from the comedies of Plautus and Terence, but students
should expect to study other examples
of archaic Latin such as the fragments of Ennius’ Annales. Students will participate in a weekly
webcast lecture, an on-line discussion
moderated by faculty members from institutions that participate in Sunoikisis (www.sunoikisis.org),
and weekly tutorials with faculty
members at Rhodes. This course is speciﬁcally designed for advanced students and will include a
rigorous study of the cultural and
historical context during the early Republic. Students will also become familiar with current
interpretative approaches to the material.
Prerequisites
Topics in Latin Literature
LATN 292 Latin Literature from the Late
Republic
Term: Fall
Credits:  4
This course, making extensive use of resources available via the internet, focuses on the literature
of Rome during the Late Republic.
Readings will come primarily from the work of Cicero, Catullus, Caesar, and Sallust. Students will
participate in a weekly webcast
lecture, an on-line discussion moderated by faculty members from institutions that participate in
Sunoikisis (www.sunoikisis.org), and
weekly tutorials with faculty members Rhodes. This course is speciﬁcally designed for advanced
students and will include a rigorous
study of the cultural and historical context during the Late Republic. Students will also become
familiar with the current interpretative
approaches to the material.
Prerequisites
Topics in Latin Literature
LATN 293 Literature of the Neronian Period
Term: Fall
Credits:  4
This inter-institutional collaborative course, making extensive use of resources available via the
internet, explores the literature of the
early Roman Empire, with a particular emphasis on the works of authors who were active during
the period of Nero’s reign. These
authors include Seneca, Lucan, and Petronius. Students will participate in a weekly webcast
lecture, an on-line discussion moderated by
faculty members from institutions that participate in Sunoikisis (www.sunoikisis.org), and weekly
tutorials with faculty members at
Rhodes. This course is speciﬁcally designed for advanced students and will include a rigorous
study of the cultural and historical context
during the early Principate.
Prerequisites
Topics in Latin Literature
LATN 294 Roman Literature, 70-180 CE
Term: Fall
Credits:  4
This course, making extensive use of resources available via the internet, explores the society of
the Roman Empire through the works of
authors who were active during the period beginning with the reign of Vespasian and extending to
the death of M. Aurelius. These
authors include Martial, Statius, Tacitus, Pliny the Younger, Juvenal, and Apuleius. Students will
participate in a weekly webcast lecture,
an on-line discussion moderated by faculty members from institutions that participate in Sunoikisis
(www.sunoikisis.org), and weekly
tutorials with faculty members at Rhodes. This course is speciﬁcally designed for advanced
students and will require extensive reading in
more than one genre of Latin literature and a rigorous study of the cultural and historical context of
Rome in the late ﬁrst and second
centuries CE.
Prerequisites
Topics in Latin Literature
LATN 295 Latin Literature from Late Antiquity
and the Middle Ages
Term: Fall
Credits:  4
This course examines the literature produced during and after the dissolution of the Roman
empire, beginning approximately with the
reforms of Diocletian and Constantine and concluding with the renaissance of secular education in
the twelfth century. Texts will include
selections from the work of Jerome, Augustine, Prudentius, Alcuin of York, Einhard, Hrotsvitha of
Gandersheim, Abelard, Heloise,
Hildegard of Bingen, and Walter of Chatillon. Students will participate in a weekly webcast lecture,
an on-line discussion moderated by
faculty members from institutions that participate in Sunoikisis (www.sunoikisis.org), and weekly
tutorials with faculty members at
Rhodes. This course is speciﬁcally designed for advanced students and will require extensive
reading in more than one genre of Latin
literature and a rigorous study of the cultural and historical context of Rome and the Latin-speaking
world after 180 CE.
Prerequisites
Topics in Latin Literature
LATN 391 Latin Literature from the Early
Republic
Term: Fall
Credits:  4
This course, making extensive use of resources available via the internet, focuses on the earliest
literary documents in the Latin
language. Readings will come primarily from the comedies of Plautus and Terence, but students
should expect to study other examples
of archaic Latin such as the fragments of Ennius’ Annales. Students will participate in a weekly
webcast lecture, an on-line discussion
moderated by faculty members from institutions that participate in Sunoikisis (www.sunoikisis.org),
and weekly tutorials with faculty
members at Rhodes. This course is speciﬁcally designed for advanced students and will include a
rigorous study of the cultural and
historical context during the early Republic. Students will also become familiar with current
interpretative approaches to the material.
Prerequisites
Topics in Latin Literature
LATN 392 Latin Literature from the Late
Republic
Term: Fall
Credits:  4
This course, making extensive use of resources available via the internet, focuses on the literature
of Rome during the Late Republic.
Readings will come primarily from the work of Cicero, Catullus, Caesar, and Sallust. Students will
participate in a weekly webcast
lecture, an on-line discussion moderated by faculty members from institutions that participate in
Sunoikisis (www.sunoikisis.org), and
weekly tutorials with faculty members Rhodes. This course is speciﬁcally designed for advanced
students and will include a rigorous
study of the cultural and historical context during the Late Republic. Students will also become
familiar with the current interpretative
approaches to the material.
Prerequisites
Topics in Latin Literature
LATN 393 Literature of the Neronian Period
Term: Fall
Credits:  4
This inter-institutional collaborative course, making extensive use of resources available via the
internet, explores the literature of the
early Roman Empire, with a particular emphasis on the works of authors who were active during
the period of Nero’s reign. These
authors include Seneca, Lucan, and Petronius. Students will participate in a weekly webcast
lecture, an on-line discussion moderated by
faculty members from institutions that participate in Sunoikisis (www.sunoikisis.org), and weekly
tutorials with faculty members at
Rhodes. This course is speciﬁcally designed for advanced students and will include a rigorous
study of the cultural and historical context
during the early Principate.
Prerequisites
Topics in Latin Literature
LATN 394 Roman Literature, 70-180 CE
Term: Fall
Credits:  4
This course, making extensive use of resources available via the internet, explores the society of
the Roman Empire through the works of
authors who were active during the period beginning with the reign of Vespasian and extending to
the death of M. Aurelius. These
authors include Martial, Statius, Tacitus, Pliny the Younger, Juvenal, and Apuleius. Students will
participate in a weekly webcast lecture,
an on-line discussion moderated by faculty members from institutions that participate in Sunoikisis
(www.sunoikisis.org), and weekly
tutorials with faculty members at Rhodes. This course is speciﬁcally designed for advanced
students and will require extensive reading in
more than one genre of Latin literature and a rigorous study of the cultural and historical context of
Rome in the late ﬁrst and second
centuries CE.
Prerequisites
Topics in Latin Literature
LATN 395 Latin Literature from Late Antiquity
and the Middle Ages
Term: Fall
Credits:  4
This course examines the literature produced during and after the dissolution of the Roman
empire, beginning approximately with the
reforms of Diocletian and Constantine and concluding with the renaissance of secular education in
the twelfth century. Texts will include
selections from the work of Jerome, Augustine, Prudentius, Alcuin of York, Einhard, Hrotsvitha of
Gandersheim, Abelard, Heloise,
Hildegard of Bingen, and Walter of Chatillon. Students will participate in a weekly webcast lecture,
an on-line discussion moderated by
faculty members from institutions that participate in Sunoikisis (www.sunoikisis.org), and weekly
tutorials with faculty members at
Rhodes. This course is speciﬁcally designed for advanced students and will require extensive
reading in more than one genre of Latin
literature and a rigorous study of the cultural and historical context of Rome and the Latin-speaking
world after 180 CE.
Prerequisites
Topics in Latin Literature
LATN 415 Tutorial Assistantship
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits:  2
Under the direction of the instructor, the tutorial assistant will be responsible for helping plan and
conduct the tutorial sessions for
elementary students. Assistants will also develop a familiarity with issues concerning second
language acquisition and assist in the
evaluation of language courses. This course is open only to advanced students and by permission
of the instructor.
LALS 105 Special Topics in Latin American
Studies
Credits:  4
Focus on topics in Latin American Studies
LALS 200 Introduction to Latin American
Studies
Term: Fall
Credits:  4
An introduction to the diverse cultural, social, and political realities of Latin America and the
Caribbean. The region is examined from an interdisciplinary perspective that draws on the ﬁelds of
literature, anthropology, sociology, history, and international studies. Major topics covered in the
course include gender, ethnicity, religion, magical realism, immigration, revolution, dictatorship, and
human rights. The course is intended as a broad overview of Latin American studies.
Degree Requirements
F9
LALS 205 Introduction to Latinx Studies
Term: Spring
Credits:  2
This course is an introduction to the interdisciplinary ﬁeld of Latinx Studies, and how it reconﬁgures
the study of the United States and the Americas. We will explore the presence of Latinx, Latinas/os
and Hispanics as an integral part of US culture, intellectual life, and history. Latinx, Latinas/os and
Hispanics have been a critical component of our expanding and growing nation, from the early
nineteenth century to the present. In the contemporary period, Latinx, Latinas/os and Hispanics
represent signiﬁcant social, economic, and political groups that contribute to the nation and
concepts of the national. We will examine notions such as: Decolonization, Liberation Theology,
Mujerista Feminisms, Xicanism, Global South, transnationalism, globalization, and others through
interdisciplinary perspectives coming from the ﬁelds of performance studies, music, literature,
history, psychology, politics, business, and culture and language among others. This course seeks
to understand the Latinx, Latinas/os intellectual and cultural production, and to reﬂect about how
they represent a central pillar for intellectual reﬂection and cultural production in our own nation.
LALS 210 Introduction to Latinx Studies and
Praxis
Term: Spring
Credits:  4
This course is an introduction to the interdisciplinary ﬁeld of Latinx Studies, and how it reconﬁgures
the study of the United States and the Americas. We will explore the presence of Latinx, Latinas/os
and Hispanics as an integral part of US culture, intellectual life, and history. Latinx, Latinas/os and
Hispanics have been a critical component of our expanding and growing nation, from the early
nineteenth century to the present. In the contemporary period, Latinx, Latinas/os and Hispanics
represent signiﬁcant social, economic, and political groups that contribute to the nation and
concepts of the national. We will examine notions such as: Decolonization, Liberation Theology,
Mujerista Feminisms, Xicanism, Global South, transnationalism, globalization, and others through
interdisciplinary perspectives coming from the ﬁelds of performance studies, music, literature,
history, psychology, politics, business, and culture and language among others. This course seeks
to understand the Latinx, Latinas/os intellectual and cultural production, and to reﬂect about how
they represent a central pillar for intellectual reﬂection and cultural production in our own nation.
There will be an engaged-learning component in this course in which students will work in and
with the Latinx community in Memphis.
LALS 265 Special Topics in Latin American
Studies
Credits:  4
Focus on special topics in Latin American Studies
LALS 306 Latin American and Latinx Studies
Practicum
Credits:  1-4
Practicum on Latin American/Latinx Studies topics.
LALS 306 Latin American/Latinx Practicum
Credits: 1-4
Practicum on Latin American/Latinx Topics
LALS 365 Advanced Special Topics in Latin
American Studies
Credits: 4
Focus on advanced topics in Latin American Studies
LALS 460 Latin American Studies Internship
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 1-4
A work experience at one of several local non-proﬁt organizations and other entities whose
missions intersect with the Latin American
Studies curriculum. Prior to enrolling in the course, students should research placement options
with Career Services and Latin American
Studies faculty. The course is conducted under the joint supervision of a Latin American Studies
faculty member and a representative of
the partner organization. Students who enroll in the course for less than four credits may repeat
the course for up to four total credits.
Degree Requirements
F11
LALS 485 Senior Seminar
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 4
Senior Seminar is an interdisciplinary research project from the following departments:
Anthropology/Sociology,/uni00A0Educational Studies, History, International Studies, Modern Languages
and Literatures (Spanish), and Biology. Students must combine two disciplines in their research and
work under the supervision of faculty members of the Latin American Studies Committee.
LALS 495 Honors Tutorial
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 4-8
/uni00A0 /uni00A0
LALS 496 Honors Tutorial
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 4-8
/uni00A0 /uni00A0
MATH 107 Linear Methods
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 4
Topics include systems of linear equations, matrices, matrix inversion and applications (including
Leontief input-output analysis), mathematical programming, linear programming and the simplex
method, ﬁnite Markov chains, and game theory.
Degree Requirements
F6
MATH 108 Cryptology
Term: Spring
Credits: 4
This course is an examination of conventional cryptographic methods (such as substitution and
transposition ciphers), public key methods (such as RSA, a standard method for secure web
transactions), and computer-based conventional cryptographic techniques (block ciphers and hash
functions). We will develop and use mathematical tools such as modular arithmetic, probability,
matrix algebra, and number theory both to implement and cryptanalyze these methods. In addition,
we will deal with a few of the technical and public policy issues surrounding uses of encryption.
Degree Requirements
F6
MATH 109 Excursions in Mathematics
Term: Spring
Credits: 4
At its heart, mathematics is a process of discovery. In this course, you will be introduced to the joys
and challenges of mathematical discovery in a setting of accessible and engaging topics. Students
will learn how to approach mathematical questions in a logical and precise way, and how to
formulate and explore questions of their own. The choice of topics varies, but includes elementary
material from such areas as graph theory, Euclidean and non-Euclidean geometry, number theory,
combinatorial games, knot theory, inﬁnite sets, probability, and the theory of fair division.
/uni00A0
Degree Requirements
F6
MATH 111 Applied Statistics for Liberal Arts
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 4
This course is an introduction to statistical inference and its applications. Topics relate to the
inferential techniques for one and two samples and simple linear regression. Both classical and
resampling methods will be used. Students may not earn credit for both Math 111 and Math 211.
/uni00A0
Degree Requirements
F6
MATH 112 Diﬀerential Calculus
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 4
This course is an introduction to the concepts, formalism, and applications of functions, limits, and
the derivative. Elementary transcendental functions are introduced and used throughout. Speciﬁc
topics include functions, limits, the derivative, and applications of diﬀerentiation.
There are no prerequisites for this class. Students are expected to have a background in high
school algebra and geometry.
Students should NOT take this course if they plan to take only one semester of calculus or if they
have already seen derivatives in a previous class.
Students who/uni00A0earned Rhodes credit for AP Calculus AB or IB Mathematics scores may not enroll in
this class./uni00A0
Students who have taken calculus in high school may not earn credit for Math 112 without
permission from the instructor.
MATH 115 Applied Calculus
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 4
This one-semester course presents an introduction to applied mathematics and an overview of
calculus: applications of the derivative, the deﬁnite Integral, the Fundamental Theorem of Calculus,
partial derivatives and double integrals. Applications will involve the use of a variety of functions,
including exponential, logarithmic and trigonometric functions. Each topic is introduced through the
modeling process; computer-based applications and group work are major components of this
course. (Note: Students who have already had Math 112, Math 116 or Math 122/uni00A0may not earn credit
for Math 115.)
Degree Requirements
F6
MATH 116 Calculus with Business Applications
Credits: 4
This course provides a one-semester introduction to the fundamentals of calculus, with
applications and examples selected speciﬁcally to be of use and interest to students with a major
in Commerce and Business, or a career interest in business. Topics include functions and change,
the derivative, diﬀerentiation techniques, the deﬁnite integral, and applications. (Note: Students
who have already had Math 112, Math 115, or Math 122 may not earn credit for Math 116.)
Degree Requirements
F6
MATH 122 Integral Calculus
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 4
This course is a continuation of Math 112 appropriate for any student who has taken a course
covering diﬀerential calculus and using trigonometric functions./uni00A0 Topics include the deﬁnite and
indeﬁnite integral, the Fundamental Theorem of Calculus, techniques of integration, and
applications of integration.
Prerequisite: MATH 112 or equivalent diﬀerential calculus course (may be satisﬁed with a high
school calculus course.)
Degree Requirements
F6
MATH 201 Transition to Advanced Mathematics
Term: Fall
Credits: 4
A thorough introduction to the reading, writing, presenting and creating of mathematical proofs.
Students will learn and practice in a
careful and deliberate way the techniques used to prove mathematical theorems. Proofs studied
will be chosen from a variety of ﬁelds
such as set theory, number theory, analysis, algebra, and graph theory. Topics also include
elements of the history and philosophy of
mathematics and an introduction to the mathematical community.
Degree Requirements
F6
Prerequisites
Integral Calculus
MATH 211 Applied Statistics for the Formal &
Natural Sciences
Credits: 4
This course is modern introduction to statistical inference. Topics of the course relate to inferential
techniques for one, two, and multiple samples. Both classical and resampling methods will be
used. The course will also include the basic concepts of experimental design. A professional
statistical software package will be used. Students may not earn credit for both Math 111 and Math
211.
/uni00A0
Degree Requirements
F6
MATH 212 Applied Regression
Term: Spring
Credits: 4
In this course the theory and applications of regression analysis will be studied and used to model
real-life data. Topics of this course will concern the selection, building, analysis, and validation of
simple and multiple regression models. The diagnostics of these models will also be studied.
Classical and resampling methods will be used with a professional software package.
Prerequisite: MATH 111 or MATH 211 or ECON 290 or PYSC 211
MATH 214 Discrete Mathematical Modeling with
Biological Applications
Term: Spring
Credits: 4
This course provides an introduction to a variety of mathematical topics used in analyzing
problems arising in the biological sciences, without using calculus. /uni00A0The mathematics covered in
this course all revolve around modeling dynamic biological phenomenon using discrete time
steps. Speciﬁcally, we will construct and analyze discrete diﬀerence equation models, matrix
models, and Boolean models. /uni00A0Some of the biological applications we will explore include
modeling the population sizes of various species over time, describing how the concentration of a
drug in the body changes over time, modeling the process of ecological succession, modeling the
frequency of an allele in a population over generations, and modeling metabolic pathways. In the
lab assignments for this course students will learn the fundamentals of programming using the
software package Matlab as a means of implementing and analyzing the mathematical models
constructed throughout the course./uni00A0Students are not expected to have prior exposure to computer
programming before taking this course.
Degree Requirements
F6
MATH 216 Mathematical Modeling in
Ecosystems
Credits: 4
This course is only available through the Semester in Environmental Science program at the
Marine Biological Lab in Woods Hole, Massachusetts.
This course is an introduction to dynamic simulation modeling of ecological systems. We examine
the role of models in science, the relationship of models to scientiﬁc theories, and methods for
their application, for example to predict long-term ecosystem responses to global change and
eutrophication. In a series of class exercises, the students will apply the concept of mass balance
to simulate population and community dynamics and the biogeochemistry of ecosystems. Each
student will develop their own computer model of an ecological system of interest to them and
write a term paper based on an analysis with their model.
/uni00A0
MATH 223 Multivariable Calculus
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 4
A continuation of Math 122 covering sequences, series, and the calculus of multivariable functions./uni00A0
Topics include power series, Taylor series, functions of several variables, partial derivatives, and
multivariable integration.
Degree Requirements
F6
Prerequisites
Integral Calculus
MATH 235 Data Visualization
Term: Fall
Credits: 4
This course will show how to eﬀectively present a set of data in ways that reveal the story within it
to diﬀerent audiences. This will include how to reformat data to enable it to be presented in
diﬀerent ways. A professional software package will be used throughout the course.
/uni00A0
MATH 251 Diﬀerential Equations
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 4
The theory, methods, and applications of ordinary diﬀerential equations. Topics include existence,
uniqueness and other properties of
solutions, linear equations, power series and Laplace transform methods, systems of linear
equations, and qualitative analysis.
Degree Requirements
F6
Prerequisites
Integral Calculus
MATH 261 Linear Algebra
Term: Spring
Credits: 4
Topics include systems of linear equations, matrix algebra, determinants, real and complex vector
spaces, linear transformations, eigenvalues and eigenvectors, and diagonalization. Attention is
given to proofs.
Prerequisites: Math 122 and either any 200-level Math course or COMP 172
Degree Requirements
F6
MATH 305 Probability & Simulation
Term: Spring
Credits: 4
This is a ﬁrst course in probability and simulation. The topics include basic probability rules,
counting methods, conditional probability, various discrete and continuous probability distributions,
functions of random variables with applications to statistical estimators, and simulation analysis of
the central limit theorem. A professional statistical software package will be used throughout the
course. This is the foundational material for the SOA/CAS actuarial Exam P/1.
Prerequisites
Integral Calculus
MATH 307 Bayesian Statistical Analysis
Term: Spring
Credits: 4
Bayes' theorem, prior and posterior distributions, likelihood functions, Bayesian data analysis,
comparison of Bayesian and classical (frequentist) approaches, introduction to Markov Chain
Monte Carlo methods (MCMC), hierarchical modeling and regression Bayesian analysis. A
professional statistical software package will be used throughout the course. Prerequisites: MATH
211 or MATH 212 or MATH 305 or ECON 290.
MATH 311 Probability Theory
Term: Fall
Credits: 4
This is a ﬁrst course in probability theory. The topics include fundamental concepts of probability
theory, various discrete and continuous probability distributions, functions of random variables, and
the Central Limit Theorem. This is the foundational material for the SOA/CAS actuarial Exam P/1.
/uni00A0
Prerequisites
Multivariable Calculus
MATH 311 Probability Theory
Credits: 4
This is a ﬁrst course in probability theory. The topics include fundamental concepts of probability
theory, various discrete and continuous probability distributions, functions of random variables, and
the Central Limit Theorem. This is the foundational material for the SOA/CAS actuarial Exam P/1.
Prerequisites
Multivariable Calculus
MATH 312 Mathematical Statistics
Term: Spring
Credits: 4
This course is a modern introduction to the mathematical statistics using both classical and
resampling methods. Topics include sampling distributions, statistical inference, estimation theory,
and other advanced mathematical statistical techniques. A professional software package will be
used throughout the course.
/uni00A0
Prerequisites
Probability Theory
Probability & Simulation
MATH 312 Mathematical Statistics
Credits: 4
This course is a modern introduction to the mathematical statistics using both classical and
resampling methods. Topics include sampling distributions, statistical inference, estimation theory,
and other advanced mathematical statistical techniques. A professional software package will be
used throughout the course.
MATH 314 Agent-based Modeling
Credits: 4
Agent-based models (ABMs) are algorithms which model the behavior and interaction of
individuals (referred to as agents) with each other and their local environment. ABMs have been
used to model a diverse array of complex dynamical systems including
ﬂocking/swarming/schooling, ﬁnancial transactions, the growth of a slime mold, and the spread of
infectious diseases within a population or network. This class will introduce agent-based modeling
and a programming language & environment designed for the implementation of ABMs called
NetLogo. After the foundational principles of agent-based modeling are covered, teams of
students will identify a system to model, and work to create and implement an ABM to address
relevant questions about the behavior of the system being modeled.
Oﬀered Spring in alternate years.
Pre-requisites: MATH 214 or MATH 315
MATH 315 Continuous Mathematical Modeling &
Scientiﬁc Writing
Term: Fall
Credits: 4
Mathematical modeling is central to harnessing the power of mathematics in the generation of new
scientiﬁc knowledge. Students will/uni00A0work in teams to model biological or physical scenarios using
systems of diﬀerential equations. Students will learn to conduct literature searches, pose and
reﬁne research questions,/uni00A0use standard mathematical models, identify which models are
applicable to a given research question, modify standard models to novel/uni00A0situations, communicate
each of these eﬀectively in writing, and work eﬀectively in a team. A ﬁnal project will require
students to create/uni00A0a polished research article presenting their models. A signiﬁcant portion of this
course will focus on developing ﬂuency in scientiﬁc/uni00A0writing./uni00A0
Oﬀered Spring Term in alternate years./uni00A0
Prerequisites: MATH 251, or MATH 122 and MATH 214
Degree Requirements
F2i
MATH 321 Real Analysis I
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 4
Topics include the real and complex number systems, metric spaces, sequences and series,
continuity, and diﬀerentiation, as well as topics selected from the Riemann and the Riemann-
Stieltjes integrals, sequences and series of functions, functions of several real variables, and
Lebesgue theory. Emphasis is on careful proof.
Prerequisites
Transition to Advanced Mathematics
Multivariable Calculus
MATH 322 Real Analysis II
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 4
Topics include the real and complex number systems, metric spaces, sequences and series,
continuity, and diﬀerentiation, as well as topics selected from the Riemann and the Riemann-
Stieltjes integrals, sequences and series of functions, functions of several real variables, and
Lebesgue theory. Emphasis is on careful proof.
Prerequisites
Real Analysis I
MATH 324 Vector and Advanced Calculus
Term: Spring
Credits: 4
A continuation of Math 223 covering vector calculus and generalizations of the Fundamental
Theorem of Calculus. Topics include vector-valued functions, advanced multivariable integration,
the geometry of curves and surfaces, Green's Theorem, the Divergence Theorem, and Stokes'
Theorem.
/uni00A0
Prerequisites
Multivariable Calculus
MATH 330 Biostatistics
Term: Fall
Credits: 4
This course applies statistical methods to medical and biological data. Topics include basics of
experimental design, basic inference techniques, one and two way ANOVA, categorical data
analysis and other Biostatistics methods. A professional software package will be used throughout
the course.
MATH 330 Biostatistics
Term: Fall
Credits: 4
This course applies statistical methods to medical and biological data. Topics include basics of
experimental design, basic inference techniques, one and two way ANOVA, categorical data
analysis and other Biostatistics methods. A professional software package will be used throughout
the course.
Prerequisites
Applied Statistics for the Formal & Natural Sciences
Statistical Methods
Statistical Analysis for Economics and Business
MATH 331 Computational Topology
Term: Spring
Credits: 4
This course is an introduction to topology and topological data analysis with an emphasis on
computation. Topics will include topology of graphs, alpha-complexes and triangulations,
homology, and persistence.
Prerequisites
Integral Calculus
MATH 333 Time Series and Forecasting
Term: Spring
Credits: 4
The course emphasis is on methods and the analysis of data sets. The course will teach students
the logic and tools for building and forecasting time series models as applied in economics,
engineering and the natural and social sciences. Professional software packages will be used
throughout the course.
Prerequisites
Probability & Simulation
MATH 352 Partial Diﬀerential Equations
Term: Fall
Credits: 4
An introduction to the concepts, theory, and basic solution techniques of partial diﬀerential
equations. Examples studied in detail include the heat equation, wave equation, and Laplace
equation. The theory and applications of Fourier series are introduced. Other topics that may be
covered include numerical methods, modeling, and nonlinear waves. (Course oﬀered in alternate
years; scheduled for 2018-2019.)
Prerequisites
Diﬀerential Equations
Multivariable Calculus
MATH 362 Abstract Algebra I
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 4
An introduction to axiomatic algebraic structures. Topics include groups, subgroups, permutation
groups, cyclic groups, normal subgroups, quotient groups, homomorphisms, isomorphisms, rings,
integral domains, polynomial rings, ideals, quotient rings, ﬁelds, and extension ﬁelds. Additional
topics may include ﬁnite ﬁelds, Galois theory, and advanced topics from linear algebra./uni00A0
Prerequisites
Transition to Advanced Mathematics
Linear Algebra
MATH 363 Abstract Algebra II
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 4
An introduction to axiomatic algebraic structures. Topics include groups, subgroups, permutation
groups, cyclic groups, normal subgroups, quotient groups, homomorphisms, isomorphisms, rings,
integral domains, polynomial rings, ideals, quotient rings, ﬁelds, and extension ﬁelds. Additional
topics may include ﬁnite ﬁelds, Galois theory, and advanced topics from linear algebra./uni00A0
Prerequisites
Abstract Algebra I
MATH 370 Complex Variables
Term: Spring
Credits: 4
This course is an introduction to the theory of functions of a complex variable. Topics include
complex numbers and their properties,
analytic functions and the Cauchy-Riemann equations, complex logarithms, exponential and
trigonometric functions, complex
integration and the Cauchy integral formula, complex power series, the residue theorem, and
applications to calculations of deﬁnite
integrals.
Prerequisites
Multivariable Calculus
MATH 371 Complex Variables with Proofs
Term: Fall
Credits: 4
This course is an introduction to the theory of functions of a complex variable. Topics include
complex numbers and their properties, analytic functions and the Cauchy-Riemann equations,
complex logarithms, exponential and trigonometric functions, complex integration and the Cauchy
integral formula, complex power series, the residue theorem, applications to calculations of
deﬁnite integrals, and methods of proof involving these concepts.
This course runs concurrent with Math 370; students in Math 371 will be held to a higher standard
of mathematical rigor and be asked to complete additional problems.
/uni00A0
Prerequisites
Transition to Advanced Mathematics
Multivariable Calculus
MATH 386 Junior Seminar
Term: Spring
Credits: 1
This course will prepare students for the Senior Seminar experience. Students will attend the
Senior Seminar presentations, pursue
independent readings, and prepare a Senior Seminar prospectus for approval by the faculty of the
department.
MATH 431 Topology
Term: Spring
Credits: 4
Topics selected from sets, functions, metric spaces, topological spaces, separation properties,
compactness, connectedness, the Stone-
Weierstrass theorem, mapping theorems, plane topology.
Prerequisites
Transition to Advanced Mathematics
Multivariable Calculus
MATH 451 Research in Mathematics
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits:  1-4
Qualiﬁed students may conduct original research in pure mathematics, applied mathematics, or
statistics under the supervision of a
faculty mentor. A student may use four combined credits from 451 and 452 towards one upper-
level major elective. Students should
expect to commit at least three hours per week per credit.
MATH 452 Research in Mathematics
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits:  1-4
Qualiﬁed students may conduct original research in pure mathematics, applied mathematics, or
statistics under the supervision of a
faculty mentor. A student may use four combined credits from 451 and 452 towards one upper-
level major elective. Students should
expect to commit at least three hours per week per credit.
MATH 455 Readings in Mathematics
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits:  1-4
This course allows students to do advanced work not provided for in the regular courses. Its
content will be ﬁxed after consultation with
the student and in accord with his or her particular interests.
MATH 456 Readings in Mathematics
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits:  1-4
This course allows students to do advanced work not provided for in the regular courses. Its
content will be ﬁxed after consultation with
the student and in accord with his or her particular interests.
MATH 460 Internship
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits:  1-4
Internships in Mathematics, which are normally arranged by the Director of Career Services, permit
a qualiﬁed student to receive
academic credit for oﬀ-campus work experience. Upon completion of the internship, the student
makes written and oral reports focusing
on an integration of the student’s academic work and the internship project. Normally the course
will be taken on a Pass/Fail basis; it
does not count toward the requirements for the major or minor except with special approval of the
department. Interested students should
contact the Chair of the department and the Director of Career Services.
MATH 465 Special Topics in Mathematics
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 4
An occasional oﬀering of topics not covered in the existing mathematics courses. Examples of
topics include: graph theory, Fourier
analysis, measure theory, dynamical systems, matrix groups, foundations of mathematics, game
theory, set theory, logic, non-Euclidean
geometry, orbifold Euler characteristics, and operations research.
MATH 482 Combinatorics
Term: Fall
Credits: 4
Topics selected from basic counting principles, Ramsey theory, the inclusion/exclusion principle,
recurrence relations, generating functions, partially ordered sets, systems of distinct
representatives, combinatorial designs, graphs, directed graphs, partitions, combinatorial
optimization, enumeration under group action, and an introduction to coding theory. (Course
oﬀered every third year.)
Prerequisites
Transition to Advanced Mathematics
MATH 485 Senior Seminar
Term: Fall
Credits: 1-4
Students pursue individual projects supervised by members of the faculty. Seminar sessions focus
on issues of eﬀective written and oral presentation of mathematics. A student may pursue either a
research project, in which the student carries out original research on a suitable topic of interest,
or an expository project, demonstrating understanding of mathematics by exploring some topic of
established mathematics which is not covered in a regular course./uni00A0
MATH 486 Senior Seminar
Term: Spring
Credits: 1-4
Students pursue individual projects supervised by members of the faculty. Seminar sessions focus
on issues of eﬀective written and oral presentation of mathematics. A student may pursue either a
research project, in which the student carries out original research on a suitable topic of interest,
or an expository project, demonstrating understanding of mathematics by exploring some topic of
established mathematics which is not covered in a regular course./uni00A0
MATH 495 Honors Tutorial in Mathematics
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 4
The Honors Tutorial provides an alternative to the Senior Seminar for qualiﬁed students who wish
to pursue an original research project
in greater depth than would be possible otherwise. Criteria for successful completion of an Honors
project include originality,
mathematical maturity, progress, and independence.
MATH 496 Honors Tutorial in Mathematics
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 4
The Honors Tutorial provides an alternative to the Senior Seminar for qualiﬁed students who wish
to pursue an original research project
in greater depth than would be possible otherwise. Criteria for successful completion of an Honors
project include originality,
mathematical maturity, progress, and independence.
MUSC 101 Music: A Sound Experience
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 4
This course is designed to increase knowledge of the history and traditions of Western art music. A
primary goal of the course is to
develop greater skill in active listening. While the focus of the course is the European classical
tradition from 1600 to the present,
discussions will also include excursions into world music, ﬁlm music, folk music of various cultures,
and American traditions, to provide
a greater appreciation of the larger musical world. This course is for students who are not music
majors.
Note: This course does not fulﬁll any requirements in the music major.
Degree Requirements
F5
MUSC 103 Elements of Music
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits:  4
This course is designed for the student who is curious about how music is organized, as well as for
the beginner who needs some extra
work in fundamental topics. Through written, aural, and keyboard skills, students gain knowledge
of pitch notation, rhythm and meter,
scales, intervals, chords, simple harmonic progressions, and cadences.
Degree Requirements
F5
MUSC 105 Topics in Music
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits:  4
Topics courses are designed to focus on special interest topics such as Women in Music, Music of
Africa, Memphis Music, Sacred Music
Traditions, and Understanding Jazz Language.
Degree Requirements
F5
MUSC 116 Ghanaian Popular Music
Term: Fall
Credits: 4
Highlife music has emerged as one of the most popular world music genres from West Africa in the
last century. The music tradition's success on the world stage is closely associated with its Trans-
Atlantic inﬂuences and the impact of African traditional and imported Western and Black Diasporic
performance norms. The present proliferation and popularization of various musical styles
marketed as 'highlife' or Ghanaian popular music point to the fact that Ghanaian musical
expressions draw their musical characteristics from indigenous Ghanaian music heritage
juxtaposed with ideas borrowed from the West. Styles are diﬀerentiated according to time, place,
and cultural inﬂuences concerning embellishment, language choice, vocal timbres, and
instrumental resources. This course analyses the musical varieties within genres marketed as
Ghanaian 'popular' or "highlife" music. It oﬀers broader political, economic, and socio-historical
perspectives on various factors rooted in ethnicity, gender, identity, Pan-Africanism, and
generational class relations that have contributed to contemporary understandings of Ghanaian
‘popular’ and highlife music. Our exploration of Highlife will range from the relationships between
Ghanaian and West African music research to the marketing of highlife music today, from
ethnographic approaches to Ghanaian performance to the philosophical and ethical
considerations involved in studying it. Throughout the course, we will consider how Ghanaian
'popular' musicians and related groups have created a range of sound worlds under considerable
social, political, and commercial pressure.
MUSC 117 Music Cultures of the World
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 4
This course serves as an introduction to the variety of music genres found in cultures around the
world outside the Western art music
tradition. Students will be introduced not only to diﬀerent musical styles, but also to their aesthetic
foundations, relation to social and
cultural contexts, historical developments, and cross-cultural interactions and inﬂuences.
Degree Requirements
F5
F9
MUSC 118 African-American Music
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 4
This course is a survey of African American musical traditions from colonial times to the present.
Students will examine the development of these styles, paying particular attention to the way in
which they fused cultures from around the globe. The inﬂuence of the music in the United States
and around the world will also be studied.
Degree Requirements
F5
F9
MUSC 119 The Music of Latin America
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 4
This course is a survey of the variety of indigenous, folk, and art music of Latin America. Emphasis
is on the sound of the music and on
the cultural and social contexts of various cultures and the historical development of music in Latin
America from the colonial period to
the present.
Degree Requirements
F5
F9
MUSC 120 The History of the Blues
Term: Spring
Credits: 4
This course traces the origins of blues from pre-colonial Africa to the present. Through repeated,
active listening of blues recordings (1912-present), reading a wide selection of works from the
foremost scholars of blues, and engaging with in-class discussion, students will gain an in-depth
understanding of the blues—i.e., sounds, styles, people, places, compositional processes,
traditions, recording and marketing practices, mythology, scholarship, and legacy. All aspects of
the blues will be examined and analyze through the proper historical and socio-cultural context. In
doing so, students will center the study of the blues around issues of identity, place, and race,
although the main objective of this class is to gain a better understanding of blues as a musical
product.
/uni00A0
Degree Requirements
F3
F5
MUSC 121 Literature and Music
Term: Fall
Credits:  4
This course, Literature and Music, will introduce the student to the great body of literature of a
variety of genres, and how the literature is set to music. Students will develop abilities necessary to
interpret and analyze great works of poetry, primarily. The student will focus on several qualities of
the literary works, and compare and contrast these literary qualities to their corresponding musical
qualities. For example, what is it about the formal scheme of a poem that dictates the form of its
composition as a musical masterpiece? What is the poem’s rhyming pattern? Its tone and voice?
How does one go about properly delivering this poem as a work of literature, and thus as a
performance of musical art? Students will also study the classics of Shakespeare and develop their
knowledge of the famous tragedies and comedies that became the librettos of celebrated operas.
In this course, the literary works will be primarily in English; however, there will also be an emphasis
on German romantic poetry set as Lieder (German art songs), French mélodie (French art songs),
and the body of English poetry used as the texts for English art songs throughout music history.
Degree Requirements
F4
F5
MUSC 130 Gender and Sexuality in Music
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits:  4
Since Plato ﬁrst warned against “feminizing” musical modes in his Republic, music has been an
important location in Western culture for circulating ideologies of gender and sexuality. This course
is an exploration of gender and sexuality in Western music, in both art and vernacular traditions.
We will consider such topics as musical constructions of masculinity and femininity; the
performance of gender; feminist music criticism; queer theory; castrati; and music as sexual politics.
Degree Requirements
F9
F5
MUSC 140 Music and Healing
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 4
This course examines music and healing from an historical, cross-cultural, and applied clinical
perspective, exploring current applications of music and healing—inside and outside the
professional medical community. The course will address healing rituals and methodologies of
non-Western cultures, applications of music to healing through modern Western music therapy, the
incorporation of music into contemporary alternative therapies and energy healing, and the ﬁeld of
medical ethnomusicology, which has emerged as a means to understand similarities between
these seemingly disparate disciplines. It oﬀers students opportunities to learn about and
experience the powerful connections that exist between music and human psychology, physiology,
and spirituality (mind, body, and spirit) through experiential class activities like drum circles and
music and meditation, course readings, guest lectures, documentary ﬁlm, audio-visual materials,
critical discussion, and community service learning. Through reﬂective assignments and exams,
students will also have the opportunity to make comparisons across diﬀerent conceptions and
applications of music in health and wellness as well as make connections with their own beliefs
and uses of music. This course includes a service-learning component that requires students to
engage with the local community in connecting and applying their knowledge of music and
healing oﬀ campus.
/uni00A0
Degree Requirements
F5
F11
MUSC 145 Psychology of Music
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 4
This course is an introduction to the multidisciplinary study of music in the human experience.
There will be a review and critical analysis of traditional and emerging issues in this rapidly
evolving ﬁeld. In addition to developing a musical vocabulary and critical listening skills, the course
will address the questions of what is music and how the mind responds to musical stimuli through
the conﬂuence of various disciplines, including anthropology, biology, education, musicology,
neuroscience, philosophy, physics, psychology, and sociology. Note: Students who have had
MUSC 204 or a 300-level music theory course should register for MUSC 345.
Degree Requirements
F5
F8
MUSC 146 Psychology of Film Music
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 4
Music plays an integral role in ﬁlm-making and serves many functions, such as conveying emotion,
heightening tension, and inﬂuencing
interpretation and inferences about events and characters. All of these musical applications
depend on complex mental processes that are being identiﬁed through research on human
participants in multimedia contexts. This ﬁeld includes a broad range of disciplines including
psychology, musicology, neuroscience, media studies, ﬁlm, and communications. Students will
develop and use musical vocabulary to describe the aural stimuli of speciﬁc cinematic productions
and also read and critique empirical research in the intersecting ﬁelds.
Note: Students who have had MUSC 204 or a 300-level music theory course should register for
MUSC 346.
Degree Requirements
F5
MUSC 150 Dance for Musical Theatre
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 2 or 4
A physical exploration of musical theatre dance based on a repertory of Broadway productions,
this course will edwin choreography that runs the gamut of musical theatre storytelling in America.
Dance for Musical Theatre is an amalgamation of many diﬀerent styles of movement, and this
course will journey the mind and body through those genres to examine how speciﬁc physical
executions and formations can move an audience.
Course meets the F5 requirement when taken for 4 credits, or when taken for 2 credits and
combined with other F5 courses for a total of 4 credits.
/uni00A0
Degree Requirements
F5
MUSC 160 Piano/Classical
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 1
All applied music instruction is oﬀered Fall and Spring semesters and meets the F5 requirements
with four semesters of 1 credit each.
Students enrolled in Applied Music will be charged an additional fee each semester for private
lessons.*
Degree Requirements
F5
MUSC 160 Piano/Jazz
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 1
All applied music instruction is oﬀered Fall and Spring semesters and meets the F5 requirements
with four semesters of 1 credit each.
Students enrolled in Applied Music will be charged an additional fee each semester for private
lessons.*
Degree Requirements
F5
MUSC 161 Organ
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 1
All applied music instruction is oﬀered Fall and Spring semesters and meets the F5 requirements
with four semesters of 1 credit each.
Students enrolled in Applied Music will be charged an additional fee each semester for private
lessons.*
Degree Requirements
F5
MUSC 162 Harpischord
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 1
All applied music instruction is oﬀered Fall and Spring semesters and meets the F5 requirements
with four semesters of 1 credit each.
Students enrolled in Applied Music will be charged an additional fee each semester for private
lessons.*
Degree Requirements
F5
MUSC 163 Voice
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 1
All applied music instruction is oﬀered Fall and Spring semesters and meets the F5 requirements
with four semesters of 1 credit each.
Students enrolled in Applied Music will be charged an additional fee each semester for private
lessons.*
Degree Requirements
F5
MUSC 164 Guitar/Classical
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 1
All applied music instruction is oﬀered Fall and Spring semesters and meets the F5 requirements
with four semesters of 1 credit each.
Students enrolled in Applied Music will be charged an additional fee each semester for private
lessons.*
Degree Requirements
F5
MUSC 164 Guitar/Commercial
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 1
All applied music instruction is oﬀered Fall and Spring semesters and meets the F5 requirements
with four semesters of 1 credit each.
Students enrolled in Applied Music will be charged an additional fee each semester for private
lessons.*
Degree Requirements
F5
MUSC 164 Guitar/Jazz
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 1
All applied music instruction is oﬀered Fall and Spring semesters and meets the F5 requirements
with four semesters of 1 credit each.
Students enrolled in Applied Music will be charged an additional fee each semester for private
lessons.*
Degree Requirements
F5
MUSC 165 Harp
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 1
All applied music instruction is oﬀered Fall and Spring semesters and meets the F5 requirements
with four semesters of 1 credit each.
Students enrolled in Applied Music will be charged an additional fee each semester for private
lessons.*
Degree Requirements
F5
MUSC 166 Violin
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 1
All applied music instruction is oﬀered Fall and Spring semesters and meets the F5 requirements
with four semesters of 1 credit each.
Students enrolled in Applied Music will be charged an additional fee each semester for private
lessons.*
Degree Requirements
F5
MUSC 167 Viola
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 1
All applied music instruction is oﬀered Fall and Spring semesters and meets the F5 requirements
with four semesters of 1 credit each.
Students enrolled in Applied Music will be charged an additional fee each semester for private
lessons.*
Degree Requirements
F5
MUSC 168 Cello
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 1
All applied music instruction is oﬀered Fall and Spring semesters and meets the F5 requirements
with four semesters of 1 credit each.
Students enrolled in Applied Music will be charged an additional fee each semester for private
lessons.*
Degree Requirements
F5
MUSC 169 Bass/Jazz
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 1
All applied music instruction is oﬀered Fall and Spring semesters and meets the F5 requirements
with four semesters of 1 credit each.
Students enrolled in Applied Music will be charged an additional fee each semester for private
lessons.*
Degree Requirements
F5
MUSC 169 Bass/Orchestral
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 1
All applied music instruction is oﬀered Fall and Spring semesters and meets the F5 requirements
with four semesters of 1 credit each.
Students enrolled in Applied Music will be charged an additional fee each semester for private
lessons.*
Degree Requirements
F5
MUSC 170 Flute
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 1
All applied music instruction is oﬀered Fall and Spring semesters and meets the F5 requirements
with four semesters of 1 credit each.
Students enrolled in Applied Music will be charged an additional fee each semester for private
lessons.*
Degree Requirements
F5
MUSC 171 Oboe
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 1
All applied music instruction is oﬀered Fall and Spring semesters and meets the F5 requirements
with four semesters of 1 credit each.
Students enrolled in Applied Music will be charged an additional fee each semester for private
lessons.*
Degree Requirements
F5
MUSC 172 Clarinet
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 1
All applied music instruction is oﬀered Fall and Spring semesters and meets the F5 requirements
with four semesters of 1 credit each.
Students enrolled in Applied Music will be charged an additional fee each semester for private
lessons.*
Degree Requirements
F5
MUSC 173 Bassoon
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 1
All applied music instruction is oﬀered Fall and Spring semesters and meets the F5 requirements
with four semesters of 1 credit each.
Students enrolled in Applied Music will be charged an additional fee each semester for private
lessons.*
Degree Requirements
F5
MUSC 174 French Horn
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 1
All applied music instruction is oﬀered Fall and Spring semesters and meets the F5 requirements
with four semesters of 1 credit each.
Students enrolled in Applied Music will be charged an additional fee each semester for private
lessons.*
Degree Requirements
F5
MUSC 175 Trumpet
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 1
All applied music instruction is oﬀered Fall and Spring semesters and meets the F5 requirements
with four semesters of 1 credit each.
Students enrolled in Applied Music will be charged an additional fee each semester for private
lessons.*
Degree Requirements
F5
MUSC 176 Trombone/Tuba
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 1
All applied music instruction is oﬀered Fall and Spring semesters and meets the F5 requirements
with four semesters of 1 credit each.
Students enrolled in Applied Music will be charged an additional fee each semester for private
lessons.*
Degree Requirements
F5
MUSC 177 Percussion/Jazz
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 1
All applied music instruction is oﬀered Fall and Spring semesters and meets the F5 requirements
with four semesters of 1 credit each.
Students enrolled in Applied Music will be charged an additional fee each semester for private
lessons.*
Degree Requirements
F5
MUSC 177 Percussion/Orchestral
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 1
All applied music instruction is oﬀered Fall and Spring semesters and meets the F5 requirements
with four semesters of 1 credit each.
Students enrolled in Applied Music will be charged an additional fee each semester for private
lessons.*
Degree Requirements
F5
MUSC 178 Saxophone
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 1
All applied music instruction is oﬀered Fall and Spring semesters and meets the F5 requirements
with four semesters of 1 credit each.
Students enrolled in Applied Music will be charged an additional fee each semester for private
lessons.*
Degree Requirements
F5
MUSC 179 Composition
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 1
All applied music instruction is oﬀered Fall and Spring semesters and meets the F5 requirements
with four semesters of 1 credit each.
Students enrolled in Applied Music will be charged an additional fee each semester for private
lessons.*
** The Applied Music fee will be charged to each student every semester enrolled in MUSC 179.
** MUSC 204 and MUSC 307 are highly recomended prior to enrolling in these lessons.
Degree Requirements
F5
MUSC 180 Applied Improvisation
Term: Fall
Credits: 1
Students in Applied Improvisation will develop an improvisational approach to making music
through the study and application of theory, concepts, and strategies. While lessons will be taught
primarily from a Jazz perspective, improvisational approaches from a variety of musical styles, such
as Blues, Rock, Folk/Americana, etc., will be explored. Students who perform on any instrument are
eligible to enroll with the permission of the instructor.
MUSC 181 Rhodes Orchestra
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 1
The Rhodes Orchestra provides a performance experience for string orchestra repertoire. The
orchestra frequently combines with
the wind ensemble to present music written for full symphonic orchestra in several concerts on
and oﬀ campus etc. Rental instruments
may be available.
Degree Requirements
F5
MUSC 182 Rhodes Wind Ensemble
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 1
The Rhodes Wind Ensemble concentrates on music written for large chamber music and band
works for woodwind, brass, and
percussion. The wind ensemble frequently combines with the orchestra to present music written
for full symphonic orchestra in several
concerts on and oﬀ campus etc. Rental instruments may be available.
Degree Requirements
F5
MUSC 184 Rhodes Jazz Ensemble
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 1
This ensemble, the college’s big band, performs multiple times per semester on campus and
around Memphis. Students explore literature
from all historic periods of jazz with most concerts centering on a theme. Concepts such as
improvisation, interpretation, and ensemble
technique are studied and put into practice, and students have access to renowned jazz musicians
through concerts and clinics. The
ensemble is open to all singers and instrumentalists, pending an audition with the director.
Degree Requirements
F5
MUSC 186 Instrumental Ensemble
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 1
Applied Music Ensemble
Degree Requirements
F5
MUSC 188 Selected Chamber Ensembles
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 1
Chamber ensembles include but are not limited to String ensembles, Brass Quintet,/uni00A0Flute
Ensemble,/uni00A0Guitar Ensemble, Harp Ensemble - these also both have their own numbers, I believe -
if not, leave them here,/uni00A0Piano Trio, String Quartet, Woodwind Quintet, Early Music ensemble, and
Percussion Ensemble.
Jazz Combos include but are not limited to Jazz Combos, Vocal Jazz Ensemble, Commercial Music
Ensemble,/uni00A0and Folk/Traditional music ensembles.
All ensembles and combos/uni00A0are auditioned and coached by music faculty who are professional
musicians.
/uni00A0
Degree Requirements
F5
MUSC 189 Collaborative Piano
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 1
Competent players may earn credit for studio and/or recital accompanying of vocalists and
instrumentalists.
Degree Requirements
F5
MUSC 190 Rhodes Singers
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 1
Rhodes Singers is an auditioned concert choir which appears regularly in concerts on and oﬀ
campus. They perform repertoire from all
stylistic periods, both a cappella and accompanied. This ensemble has a rich history of touring the
United States for over sixty years, and
frequently tours abroad. Students who participate in this ensemble are expected to commit to a full
academic year.
Degree Requirements
F5
MUSC 192 Rhodes Mastersingers Chorale
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 1
This ensemble comprises experienced singers from the campus and Greater-Memphis community
and students. There are up to four
concerts each year and the repertoire includes a variety of musical styles. They frequently perform
with the Memphis Symphony
Orchestra. Membership is by audition.
Degree Requirements
F5
MUSC 193 Rhodes Women's Chorus
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 1
This ensemble is open to female students, and repertoire is taken from a variety of musical genres.
The ensemble presents a major
concert each semester and makes several program appearances in the local community.
Membership is by audition.
Degree Requirements
F5
MUSC 194 Scenes from Musical Theatre and
Opera
Term: Spring
Credits: 1
Scenes from/uni00A0Musical Theatre and Opera is a performance class designed for students of all levels
interested in performing scenes from musical theatre, opera, and operetta. Students will be guided
by Rhodes music faculty in all aspects of preparation and performance of such scenes, including:
musical and vocal coaching, work in various styles, dramatic coaching, staging, and production
elements such as writing and delivering introductions to scenes, staging, basic stagecraft and
lighting./uni00A0
The class will incorporate issues relevant to Lyric Theatre such as text and musical interpretation,
characterization, blocking, movement and scenic/presentation elements. Musical and vocal
dramatization will be key elements of the course. Students will be cast in various scenes selected
by the faculty, appropriate to each student’s vocal and musical level of development. They will
present their work in a public performance at the conclusion of the semester. This course will be
attractive for majors, minors, and non-majors alike. While there are no prerequisites, enrollment is
dependent upon co-enrollment in MUSC 163, Applied Voice Lessons, and students must have the
recommendation of their applied voice teacher.
MUSC 196 Vocal Ensemble
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 1
Vocal Ensembles include, but are not limited to Vocal Jazz Ensemble and Chamber Singers.
The Vocal Jazz Ensemble performs multiple times per semester on campus and around Memphis.
Students explore literature from all
historic periods and stylistic nuances of jazz. Concepts such as improvisation, interpretation,
appropriate vocal methods and ensemble
technique are studied and put into practice, and students have access to renowned jazz musicians
through concerts and clinics. The
ensemble is open to all singers by audition, and to some instrumentalists forming a rhythm section.
Chamber Singers is a small, highly select, auditioned,/uni00A0a cappella SATB/uni00A0choral ensemble, chosen
from students within Rhodes Singers. It is comprised of 12-16 singers,/uni00A0performing a variety of
repertoire appropriate for a small, select vocal ensemble, including period music, contemporary
music, and music sung in many languages.
/uni00A0
/uni00A0
Degree Requirements
F5
MUSC 201 American Music: Twentieth-Century
American Music
Term: Fall
Credits: 4
This course will focus on the development of critical thinking and writing skills through the study of
the American culture and its eﬀect
on the music, composers, and entertainers of the twentieth century. The student will consider the
inﬂuence of the culture on Twentiethcentury
American music by reading about, listening to, and discussing classical and popular American
music. The music of the Memphis
Region will be a focus and will require group excursions to musically important sites in the city of
Memphis. Students will be expected
to express their own views both about the music being studied and the larger question of the role
of music and art in American society.
Degree Requirements
F2i
F5
MUSC 204 Understanding Musicianship
Term: Fall
Credits: 4
The development of musicianship skills is a life-long journey for musicians at all levels. This course
is an introduction to the concepts
and the various approaches used to describe music, to create music, and to perform music.
Listening skills and analytical skills will
develop the ability to “think in sound” and use an appropriate musical vocabulary. The
development of aural skills and keyboard skills
will reinforce each individual’s performance area.
Degree Requirements
F5
MUSC 222 Music Technology
Term: Fall
Credits: 4
This course is designed as an introduction to both utilitarian and creative concepts, which will
assist students in developing practical and
artistic applications in music technology. The course will develop a solid foundation for those
wishing to use technology to enhance their
musical understanding.
Degree Requirements
F5
MUSC 224 Creation of Virtual Ensemble
Credits: 4
How to create a Virtual Ensemble. This course is designed to introduce the student to the
components and procedures needed to create a Virtual Ensemble. It is designed to enable the
musician (vocal and instrumental) to discover and process the materials needed, the steps
required, oﬀer the skills necessary and the mechanisms needed in order to create a virtual
ensemble, whether it is vocal or instrumental. This course is oﬀered with a focus to cultivate
essential, basic skills at a foundational level, entry level, revealing the processes needed to create
a virtual ensemble. The intended outcome of this course is to produce a virtual ensemble product
at a rudimentary level, including both audio and video components. The course will address
creating, combining, mixing and editing audio and video recordings through the process of post-
production. The student needs to be familiar with computer hardware software, and have
knowledge of musical notation enough to eﬀectively work in this process.
Pre-requisites:
Computer Skills and Music Notation knowledge: MUSC 204 or equivalent, or permission of
instructor
Degree Requirements
F5
MUSC 227 Western Art Music I
Term: Fall
Credits: 4
In this course we will study the rise of Western art music from religious and folk traditions as it is
constructed and interpreted with primary sources, speciﬁcally musical scores and contemporary
criticism. In MUSC 227, we will examine Gregorian chant and early polyphonic genres, the growth
of polyphony in the mass, motet, and madrigal, early instrumental music, and European genres of
the seventeenth and eighteenth centuries: opera, oratorio, cantata, concerto, suite, sonata, and
keyboard music. In MUSC 228 we will study the evolution of styles and genres from the mid
eighteenth to the twenty-ﬁrst centuries, with a particular focus on the Western traditional musical
“canon” as it is constructed and interpreted with primary sources, speciﬁcally musical scores and
contemporary criticism.
The course will examine the transformation of musical language in both secular and sacred music
genres. The intellectual and cultural events of this same time will also claim our attention, on
account of their very direct eﬀects on composition, performance, and aesthetics of music. Students
will gain factual knowledge of these musical trends and traditions, as well as a broader
understanding and appreciation of the music of these eras. In addition, through the ﬁnal paper,
students will develop their written skills.
/uni00A0
Degree Requirements
F3
Prerequisites
First-Year Writing Seminar
MUSC 228 Western Art Music II
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 4
In this course we will study the rise of Western art music from religious and folk traditions as it is
constructed and interpreted with primary sources, speciﬁcally musical scores and contemporary
criticism. In MUSC 227, we will examine Gregorian chant and early polyphonic genres, the growth
of polyphony in the mass, motet, and madrigal, early instrumental music, and European genres of
the seventeenth and eighteenth centuries: opera, oratorio, cantata, concerto, suite, sonata, and
keyboard music. In MUSC 228 we will study the evolution of styles and genres from the mid
eighteenth to the twenty-ﬁrst centuries, with a particular focus on the Western traditional musical
“canon” as it is constructed and interpreted with primary sources, speciﬁcally musical scores and
contemporary criticism.
The course will examine the transformation of musical language in both secular and sacred music
genres. The intellectual and cultural events of this same time will also claim our attention, on
account of their very direct eﬀects on composition, performance, and aesthetics of music. Students
will gain factual knowledge of these musical trends and traditions, as well as a broader
understanding and appreciation of the music of these eras. In addition, through the ﬁnal paper,
students will develop their written skills.
/uni00A0
Degree Requirements
F3
Prerequisites
First-Year Writing Seminar
MUSC 229 Music in the Modern Era
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 4
In this course we will study the evolution of styles and genres from ca. 1900 to the present day,
with a particular focus on the Western
traditional musical “canon.” The course will examine the transformation of musical language in both
secular and sacred music genres.
The intellectual and cultural events of this same time will also claim our attention, on account of
their very direct eﬀects on composition,
performance, and aesthetics of music. Students will gain factual knowledge of these musical
trends and traditions, as well as a broader
understanding of how historical forces have changed the music of these eras. In addition, through
the ﬁnal research paper and
presentation students will develop their oral and written skills.
Degree Requirements
F3
Prerequisites
First-Year Writing Seminar
MUSC 230 Music and Drama of Eighteenth
Century England
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits:  4
This class will examine the rich musical history of the performing arts and theatre in eighteenth-
century England. This was a period when theatre and opera worlds mixed, and fair-booth
burlesque and musical theatre—the ancestors of English music hall and vaudeville —ﬂourished at
the expense of “legitimate” English drama. In this course we will study the various genres of
eighteenth-century English musical and theatrical forms, including ballets (both French and
English), pantomimes, afterpieces, burlesques, ballad operas, pastiches, and mid-century attempts
at a native “serious” opera. Through primary source materials, we will explore the eighteenth-
century Shakespeare revival, the hegemony of Italian opera in London, the emerging idea of the
“star” performer, music in the London pleasure gardens, the fad for Handelian oratorios, Mozart
and Haydn in London, illegitimate theatre, life in touring theatrical companies, and the rise of
popular music culture and marketing.
Prerequisites
First-Year Writing Seminar
MUSC 231 Musical Paris 1870-1940
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits:  4
This course will examine of the development of French music in relation to other arts and societal
events, focusing on Paris as the center of new artistic developments at the turn of the twentieth-
century. The course will provide an introduction to artistic movements during this period, including
musical composers: Fauré, Debussy, Ravel, Satie, and Stravinsky. Students will develop a
vocabulary to describe and discuss musical works in general and of this period speciﬁcally,
integrate musical works into the context of the early twentiethcentury Parisian society.
Degree Requirements
F3
F5
Prerequisites
First-Year Writing Seminar
MUSC 235 Music Post-1945
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 4
This course will focus on the repertoire of the past six decades, providing an opportunity to
develop more analytical and verbal skills in
regards to modern compositions, composers, and compositional techniques through visual and
aural stimuli. The course will also focus
on the diﬃcult skill of writing about music.
Prerequisites
First-Year Writing Seminar
MUSC 250 Music Urbanism
Term: Spring
Credits: 4
This course will examine music urbanism, an exploration of how music impacts and shapes our
built environment and an investigation into how music can build healthier, more vibrant cities.
Students will consider some of the ideals and promises of music urbanism, from addressing
gentriﬁcation and development without displacement to how a strategic approach for music can
impact myriad urban issues from aﬀordable housing to public transportation. We will engage with
leaders in cities across the U.S. and in Europe who are working in varied roles that deal with music
urbanism, from those leading a city oﬃce of arts and culture to those running nonproﬁts focused
on music education, economy or infrastructure. Students will develop solutions to real urban
challenges around music and will learn how to approach arts and culture strategy.
MUSC 251 Advanced Jazz/Contemporary Dance
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 2 or 4
A physical examination of dance as an art form and means of expression, emotion and storytelling,
this course familiarizes the student with practices, application, technique, terminology and
philosophies of Jazz dance in a practical dance class setting. Jazz dance is an amalgamation of
many diﬀerent styles of movement, and this course will journey the body through those genres to
fulﬁll an outbound expression of the inner life.
Course meets the F5 requirement when taken for 4 credits, or when taken for 2 credits and
combined with other F5 courses for a total of 4 credits.
Degree Requirements
F5
MUSC 262 Music and Community in Memphis
Term: Fall
Credits: 2
In the course, students will join the Mike Curb Institute for Music to explore the richness and
complexity of the urban setting of Memphis through research and study, reﬂection, and real-world
experience. Theories and best practices of Community Integrative Education will be studied and
applied to tangible projects through the unifying theme of music and community. Students will met
weekly and also meet independently with their assigned project teams. The class projects are also
the projects of the Curb Institute and project teams will consist of students from the class along
with Curb Fellows.
This course is cross-listed with URBN 262
/uni00A0
MUSC 265 History of Musical Theatre
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 4
Surveying the art form known as musical theatre from its multiple origins through contemporary
trends, we will use music, ﬁlm, librettos
and scores, and local productions to gain a broader understanding and appreciation of this
performance genre. While we will look at the
development of the musical as an art form, we will also explore musicals as vehicles for the wider
social and cultural themes of each era.
Open to the general student, the course also serves as an elective for the major/minor in Music.
Prerequisites
First-Year Writing Seminar
MUSC 305 Advanced Topics in Music
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 1-4
Content of the course varies with instructor. Selected topics may include Form & Analysis,
Advanced Analysis, Advanced Musicianship,
Music Theory Pedagogy, Introduction to Musicology, among others. This course may be repeated
for credit as long as topics covered are
diﬀerent.
MUSC 306 Mathematical Music Analysis: Post-
Tonal Theory
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 4
This course examines analytical and compositional techniques through a survey of twentieth and
twenty-ﬁrst-century repertoire. Topics
include, but are not limited to, modulo 12, pitch centricity, symmetry, set theory, combinatorics,
inversional and transpositional
equivalence, and serialism.
Degree Requirements
F6
Prerequisites
Understanding Musicianship
MUSC 307 Composition and Orchestration
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 4
This course emphasizes learning concepts and techniques of music composition through the study
of music theory and structure.
Orchestration, the art of scoring for various instruments, will include the acquisition of basic
elements, such as the range, transposition
and timbre of each instrument. Assignments will include both original formal designs as well as and
arrangements for a variety of
ensembles. Beyond writing with pencil and paper, basic skills in music notation software will be
developed as well. The ﬁnal project
will be a short composition orchestrated for the available class personnel.
Prerequisites
Understanding Musicianship
MUSC 308 Centuries of Counterpoint
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 4
Counterpoint, “punctus contra punctum,” is the technique of writing independent melodic lines that
work together to create eﬀective music. This course will include analysis, composition, and
performance of contrapuntal models, focusing on the 16th, 18th and 20th centuries.
Prerequisites
Understanding Musicianship
MUSC 309 Performance and Analysis
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 4
The analysis of music is a life-long learning process that helps a musician to understand, to hear
and to perform a work of art. The
principal outcome of this course should be an increased awareness of the elements of musical
form and how they are important in
developing an interpretation of that musical work. While there is an inherent challenge in
describing music through the written word, the
ﬁnal project will be a written analysis with either a live performance or multiple recordings
Degree Requirements
F2i
Prerequisites
Understanding Musicianship
MUSC 310 Practical Musicianship
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 4
This course will focus on the development of skills for the advanced musician through practical
applications. By expanding one’s
abilities and knowledge of music theory, aural skills, keyboard harmony, and score reading,
provides musicianship tools necessary for
intelligent and critical listening, thinking, and performing.
Prerequisites
Understanding Musicianship
MUSC 311 Tonal Harmony and Analysis
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits:  4
This course develops written, aural, and keyboard skills as applied to common-practice musical
traditions. Beginning with a review of
music fundamentals, topics include: diatonic harmony and functions, voice leading guidelines,
phrase structure, chromatic harmony,
extended tertian harmony, small and large formal designs, and 19th-century genres.
Prerequisites
Understanding Musicianship
MUSC 312 Jazz Theory
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits:  4
This course bridges theory and practice through the language of jazz improvisation and various
jazz styles. A strong theoretical
foundation is built from music fundamentals through post-tonal theory, while integrating aural skills,
keyboard skills and improvisation.
Prerequisites
Understanding Musicianship
MUSC 313 Advanced Analysis
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits:  4
This course will establish an awareness and understanding of appropriate analytical techniques,
and develop facility in critical and
analytical thought. Selected works studied will span Western music history using a variety of
analytical approaches. As a good musical
analysis puts into words what the best musicians hear after having listened to a particular piece of
music attentively over time;
assignments will focus on the challenge of writing about the music.
Prerequisites
Understanding Musicianship
MUSC 321 Composition Lab
Term: Spring
Credits: 1-4
This course is intended for students with experience in music who are interested in composing.
The course will beneﬁt both those with previous composition experience and those who have
none. Each student in the class will write music and perform the music of their colleagues in a lab
setting.
Throughout the semester, various techniques and styles will be studied and analyzed, and each
student will write a short work based on that week’s topic. Techniques and styles to be covered
include modal composition, atonal composition, process music (serialism, minimalism, etc),
indeterminacy and aleatory, extended techniques, and more. The course will culminate with each
student writing a ﬁnal composition project to be performed in an open concert with all of the lab
participants.
/uni00A0
MUSC 322 Advanced Music Technology
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 4
This course continues the trajectory begun in MUSC 222, providing a deeper palette of
technological resources to convey musical ideas. Students explore theoretical concepts of sound
design/synthesis and algorithmic composition, and investigate the components of real world
sounds, learning object oriented programming skills necessary to replicate them. Students also
explore live electronic improvisation with Ableton Live, and learn the techniques of loop-based
composition and performance, as well as methods of remixing and resampling. This course will
delve further into the recording and mixing techniques learned in MUSC 222. Students will learn
speciﬁc strategies for recording diﬀerent instruments and sonic environments, as well as further
ways to add detail, clarity, and interest to their mixes. Basic concepts of mastering will be
introduced.
Prerequisites
Music Technology
MUSC 323 Audio Engineering:History, Theory,
Practice
Term: Fall
Credits: 4
Sponsored by the Mike Curb Institute for Music, this course will examine the progression of sound
recording in the 20th and 21st centuries, from the Phonograph to ProTools. Students will learn
about the history of recording, paying special attention to the role of Memphis in that history, and
will gain hands-on experience and knowledge about recording theories and techniques. Co-taught
with a professional recording engineer and in partnership with Memphis recording studios, the
class will teach students not only tangible skills in audio recording, but also a framework for
understanding the impact of recording on the city of Memphis and the world./uni00A0/uni00A0/uni00A0/uni00A0 Hours will be spent
in the classroom and in visiting recording studios in the area for hands-on ﬁeld work and learning.
/uni00A0
Prerequisite: Completion of MUSC 222 and 322 is preferred, but not required.
MUSC 345 Psychology of Music
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 4
This course is an introduction to the multidisciplinary study of music in the human experience.
There will be a review and critical
analysis of traditional and emerging issues in this rapidly evolving ﬁeld. In addition to the further
development of the musical
vocabulary, critical listening skills and analytic skills, the course will address the questions of what
is music and how the mind responds
to musical stimuli through the conﬂuence of various disciplines, including anthropology, biology,
education, musicology, neuroscience,
philosophy, physics, psychology, and sociology.
Degree Requirements
F8
MUSC 346 Psychology of Film Music
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 4
Music plays an integral role in ﬁlm-making and serves many functions, such as conveying emotion,
heightening tension, and inﬂuencing
interpretation and inferences about events and characters. All of these musical applications
depend on complex mental processes that are
being identiﬁed through research on human participants in multimedia contexts. This ﬁeld includes
a broad range of disciplines
including psychology, musicology, neuroscience, media studies, ﬁlm, and communications.
Students will develop and use musical
vocabulary to describe the aural stimuli of speciﬁc cinematic productions and also read and
critique empirical research in the intersecting
ﬁelds.
Prerequisites
Understanding Musicianship
MUSC 365 Advanced Topics in Music
Technology
Term: Spring
Credits: 4
This course is intended to deepen the student’s understanding of music technology and
production by focusing on specialized and advanced skills beyond those introduced in MUSC 222.
Each iteration of the class will focus on diﬀerent topic in a rotating list, including, but not limited to
sound design for media, interactive music, multimedia art, and advanced composition through
technology.
/uni00A0
Prerequisites
Music Technology
MUSC 382 Music and Community in Memphis
Term: Fall
Credits: 2
In the course, students will join the Mike Curb Institute for Music to explore the richness and
complexity of the urban setting of Memphis through research and study, reﬂection, and real-world
experience. Theories and best practices of Community Integrative Education will be studied and
applied to tangible projects through the unifying theme of music and community. Student will meet
weekly, meet independently with their assigned project teams, and serve as liaisons for group
projects.
This course is cross-listed with URBN 382
/uni00A0
Prerequisites
Music and Community in Memphis
Music and Community in Memphis
MUSC 414 Conducting I
Term: Fall
Credits: 2
This course serves as an introduction to the fundamental skills of conducting. Seminar-style
conducting lessons that focus on the skills of
conducting, and emphasize reading, studying and communicating a score to an ensemble.
Prerequisites
Understanding Musicianship
MUSC 415 Conducting II
Term: Spring
Credits: 2
The course serves to develop strategies for leading eﬀective rehearsals and applying the skills
developed in 414 to musical repertoire and
ensembles.
Prerequisites
Conducting I
MUSC 422 Arts Entrepreneurship
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 4
This course is designed to help students identify and develop methods to apply their creative
abilities in practical ways and to introduce
the entrepreneurial process in the context of the arts industry. The course readings, lectures, and
assignments will provide a basic
knowledge of arts and music business practices which will be particularly useful to students
preparing for a self-managed career where
their income is generated from performance, recording, composing or organizing musical events
and/or setting up a music related
business enterprise. Students will learn how to write a project proposal, prepare a budget,
research funding options, and develop a
marketing plan. The aim of the course is to help to guide students in understanding their unique
talents in order to better understand their own personal aspirations and reach their full
professional potential.
Open only to juniors and seniors.
MUSC 451 Music Cognition Research Practicum
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 1-4
/uni00A0/uni00A0
MUSC 452 Music Cognition Research Practicum
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 1-4
/uni00A0/uni00A0
MUSC 460 Internship
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 1-4
The internship program provides an experiential approach to the learning process and aﬀords
music students the opportunity to work in
regional music organizations for academic credit (Memphis Opera, Memphis Symphony Orchestra,
Church music programs, Memphis
Playhouse, and the like). Internship placements are designed to complement learning goals and
career plans by allowing the student to
apply theoretical principles and skills learned in the traditional classroom. Placements are arranged
by the Director of Career Services
and work schedules are arranged by the student and on-site supervisor(s). Typically students work
on speciﬁc projects related to their
career interest and compatible with the goals and interests of the sponsoring organization. Other
requirements of the internship include
submission of a resume and application, interview with the on-site supervisor, participation in
classroom seminars which focus on longterm
career planning and job search skills, completion of written self-assessment assignments, and the
like. Internships are available to
second-semester junior and senior music majors with possible availability to majors from other
departments. Arrangements for
internships are made the semester prior to the actual experience. Under special circumstances,
the number of credit hours may vary from
1-4, but under no circumstances will more than 8 credits be allowed to count toward the credits
required for graduation.
Degree Requirements
F11
MUSC 485 Senior Seminar
Term: Fall
Credits:  2
This seminar provides a capstone experience for the Music Major through instruction in research
and writing methods. This course will
prepare the student for a public presentation in the spring semester (see Music 486.)
MUSC 486 Senior Presentation (a continuation
of 485)
Term: Spring
Credits:  2
Each music major will design and present an appropriate portion of their senior research project in
consultation with the music faculty,
and will choose one of the following:
* A recital performance with program notes.
* A paper presentation based on original research.
* A performance of an original composition with program notes.
* A lecture-recital based on original research.
MUSC 495 Honors Tutorial
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 4
/uni00A0/uni00A0
MUSC 496 Honors Tutorial
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 4
/uni00A0/uni00A0
NEUR 270 Neuroscience
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 4
This course examines the structure and function of the nervous system. Topics range from
communication within individual neurons to
higher order brain functions such as learning, memory, perception, states of consciousness,
language and the regulation of motivation
and emotion. Psychiatric and neurological disorders will also be discussed. Particular attention will
be given to methods and research
design in the Neurosciences.
NEUR 299 Topics in Neuroscience
Credits: 4
A special topics course in Neuroscience. The format may be lecture or seminar.
Prerequisites
Neuroscience
NEUR 300 Topics in Neuroscience with Lab
Term: Spring
Credits: 4, 1
The topic of this course will vary with the instructor, but it will consist of a 4-credit hour lecture
section plus associated 1-credit hour laboratory experience. This course will fullful a depth
requirement within the Neuroscience major. The course will delve in depth into a topic within
Neuroscience, and also introduce students to modern research techniques within that area. The
scientiﬁc method will be emphasized within the laboratory, including the collection, analysis, and
presentation of data.
NEUR 318 Clinical Neuroscience
Term: Fall
Credits: 4
A critical examination of the/uni00A0neurobiological mechanisms of mental illness. Current biobehavioral
perspectives of potential causes and treatments of psychological disorders such as schizophrenia,
eating disorders, drug abuse, depression, and obsessivecompulsive disorder are considered. An
emphasis is placed on the interaction of nature and nurture (e.g. stress) contributing to both
vulnerability and resilience to mental illness.
Prerequisites
Neuroscience
NEUR 345 Cognitive Neuroscience and Lab
Term: Fall
Credits: 4, 1
This course examines how structure and function of the brain give rise to cognitive processes. We
will explore the major cognitive systems, including object recognition, attention, memory,
language, emotion, social cognition, and executive function, and learn about the cutting-edge
technologies being employed to study these processes. In the lab portion of this course, students
will be exposed to an array of techniques used in cognitive neuroscience research. Lab activities
include a trip to LeBonheur Children’s Hospital to observe transcranial magnetic stimulation,
analysis of magneto encephalography data, and collection of electro encephalogram recordings.
Various methodological and analytical approaches will be explored ﬁrst-hand so that students are
familiarized with the broad spectrum of approaches used in modern neuroscience.
Prerequisites
Introduction to Psychological Science
NEUR 350 Neuroscience Research Methods
Term: Fall
Credits:  4
This laboratory methods course is designed to expose students to a wide range of neuroscience
techniques including electrophysiology, stereotaxic surgery, behavioral pharmacology, tissue
ﬁxation and sectioning, histology, immunohistochemistry, western blotting, blood and salivary
hormone analysis, and various psychophysiological measures. The class will comprise short
lectures accompanying longer
laboratory exercises.
Prerequisites
Neuroscience
NEUR 399 Junior Honors Tutorial
Term: Spring
Credits:  1
Junior Neuroscience majors who are considering pursuing honors research are required to enroll
in this preparatory tutorial.
NEUR 451 Research in Neuroscience
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits:  1-4
Qualiﬁed students may conduct laboratory research in neuroscience. Four credits of research may
be used to satisfy one of the three
breadth requirements for the Neuroscience Major. Requirements include at least three hours of
work per week per credit, regular
meetings with the faculty sponsor, and a formal presentation of the research product upon
completion. Interested students should consult
the Neuroscience Program committee.
NEUR 452 Research in Neuroscience
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits:  1-4
Qualiﬁed students may conduct laboratory research in neuroscience. Four credits of research may
be used to satisfy one of the three
breadth requirements for the Neuroscience Major. Requirements include at least three hours of
work per week per credit, regular
meetings with the faculty sponsor, and a formal presentation of the research product upon
completion. Interested students should consult
the Neuroscience Program committee.
NEUR 485 Senior Seminar
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits:  4
All Neuroscience majors are required to enroll in Senior Seminar during one semester of their
senior year. Senior Seminar is intended to
be a capstone academic experience that involves student presentations and discussions of
current primary literature in Neuroscience.
Students will also prepare a research paper on a current topic in the ﬁeld.
NEUR 486 Senior Seminar
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits:  4
All Neuroscience majors are required to enroll in Senior Seminar during one semester of their
senior year. Senior Seminar is intended to
be a capstone academic experience that involves student presentations and discussions of
current primary literature in Neuroscience.
Students will also prepare a research paper on a current topic in the ﬁeld.
NEUR 495 Honors Tutorial
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits:  4-8
For seniors accepted into the Neuroscience honors research program.
NEUR 496 Honors Tutorial
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 4-8
For seniors accepted into the Neuroscience honors research program.
PHIL 101 Introduction to Philosophy
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 4
A writing-intensive seminar that introduces students to central philosophical ideas and debates. In
recent years, we have oﬀered Black Mirror and Philosophy. In this course, students use the Netﬂix
series Black Mirror to investigate philosophical questions such as: Do we have free will? Do some
circumstances call for the violation of standard moral principles for the sake of the greater good?
What are the appropriate limits of privacy in the digital age? How have new technologies
reoriented our personal relationships, and what are the implications for social and political life?
Throughout the course, students reﬂect on the ongoing relevance of philosophy for contemporary
life. They also learn key argumentation and philosophical writing skills. *This course is open to ﬁrst-
year and sophomore students only. Typically oﬀered every fall.
Degree Requirements
F2i
PHIL 105 Introductory Seminar in Philosophy
Term: Fall
Credits: 4
Philosophy intrepidly examines whether reason can answer some big questions: Do we actually
know anything? If yes: what and how? Does human life have any inherent meaning? Is there a
God? Do I have a free will? Are there absolute moral goods and evils? Is there a right way for
human beings to live? Speciﬁc topics may include: "Black Mirror and Philosophy," "The Force of
Reason," Philosophy and Science Fiction."
Degree Requirements
F2i
PHIL 110 Philosophy, Politics, and Economics
Term: Fall
Credits: 4
This is the introductory course for the Political Economy major, but we welcome all students. The
Political Economy program explores the relationships between ways of organizing political life
(e.g., aristocracy, pure democracy, liberal democracy) and ways of organizing economic life (e.g.,
free-market capitalism, socialism, communism). How do economic systems advance or frustrate the
goals of political orders? The right goals of a political and economic order, however, cannot be
determined without exploring an array of philosophical questions: What is justice? What is the best
way of life for human beings? Is economic prosperity necessary to that way of life? How can
political and economic orders manage the conﬂicts between individual selﬁshness and common
goods? Are human beings equal? In what ways should we be equal and free? What do we owe
ourselves and what do we owe others? To what degree ought we to obey a government? We will
then delve into contentious public policy problems (e.g., the distribution of wealth, income
inequality, aﬃrmative action, immigration, sexual discrimination), each of which poses moral,
political, and economic questions. In general, our goal will be to think honestly and precisely about
the quandaries of social, political, and economic life. This course is open to ﬁrst-year students,
sophomores, and those with permission of the instructor.
/uni00A0
Degree Requirements
F2i
F8
PHIL 200 Critical Reasoning
Term: Fall
Credits: 4
The central aim of this course is to help you to reason better when deciding what to believe and
what to do. This course provides the tools you need, drawing from several areas: cognitive
psychology, behavioral economics, logic, probability, and decision theory. We will consider
empirical evidence about heuristics and biases—spontaneous judgments that can be predictably
irrational. And we will study what good deductive, causal, and probabilistic reasoning looks like. At
the end of the course, students should be able to identify common cognitive pitfalls and to master
techniques that help them avoid these pitfalls or mitigate their eﬀects. In this sense, the goal of the
course is entirely practical: to develop eﬀective reasoning skills with clear applications in your
personal and professional lives. The course is open to students from all areas of study interested
in improving their reasoning ability and their ability to construct and recognize compelling
arguments. These skills may be helpful in a wide variety of subjects and extra-academic pursuits.
But since proper reasoning is the centerpiece of philosophy, students intending to major or minor
in philosophy must take this course.
Degree Requirements
F6
PHIL 201 Ancient Philosophy
Term: Fall
Credits: 4
This course examines pre-Socratic, Platonic, Aristotelian, and Hellenistic contributions to Western
philosophy, with some emphasis on philosophy of science and ethics. We examine a broad range
of philosophical topics including: nature, knowledge, virtue, and happiness. There will be a strong
emphasis on analyzing the arguments found in the texts. Oﬀered yearly.
Degree Requirements
F1
PHIL 203 Modern Philosophy
Term: Spring
Credits: 4
An examination of major representatives of Modern Philosophy, focusing on the works of
Descartes, Hume, and Kant. Issues to be considered include such things as the nature and role of
rationality, the relation of the sensuous and the rational, the exercise of freedom, and the existence
of God. Oﬀered yearly.
PHIL 210 Logic
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 4
Reasoning and argument are pervasive features of human life. For instance, people are constantly
trying to persuade you to adopt certain positions or beliefs; they will often attempt to do so by
means of argument or reasoning. But what makes for good reasoning? This course is intended to
introduce students to principles and methods of good reasoning, with an emphasis on the analysis
of everyday arguments. Students will develop the ability to uncover the logical structure of ordinary
language; to recognize, represent, and assess everyday statements and arguments; to work
competently within formal logical systems; and to construct clear and cogent arguments of their
own. Oﬀered yearly.
/uni00A0
Degree Requirements
F6
PHIL 216 Philosophy of Law
Term: Fall
Credits: 4
This course addresses puzzling questions of agency and responsibility arising from legal norms
and principles. What’s the diﬀerence between justifying and excusing a killing? Does the law of
self-defense discriminate against women? Does mental illness negate responsibility or should the
insanity defense be abolished? What is the distinction between Act and Intention? Attempted
crimes are punished less severely than completed ones: do unsuccessful criminals deserve
leniency because of circumstances beyond their control? Should ignorance of the law sometimes
be an excuse? Can committing a crime sometimes be the right thing to do? What is the purpose of
punishment?
/uni00A0
PHIL 219 Foundations of Artiﬁcial Intelligence
Term: Spring
Credits: 4
This course introduces students to the interdisciplinary ﬁeld of artiﬁcial intelligence. The course is
broken into four modules. The ﬁrst centers on the question “Can machines think?”. It introduces
students to the philosophical debate about the nature of mental phenomena---culminating with the
view that mental states are fundamentally computational. The second module focuses on the
question of “What is a computer?” and introduces students to the central concepts of computer
science. Here, students learn, e.g., the diﬀerence between formal systems, ﬁnite state automata,
and Turing machines. The third module addresses the question of “How do artiﬁcially intelligent
systems work?” It looks at the design of such systems and at how search techniques enable them
to navigate their environments. The last module asks the question “How do artiﬁcial systems relate
to the brain?” It explores the intersections between AI and neuroscience, such as the design and
application of Artiﬁcial Neural Nets and Deep Learning.
PHIL 220 Philosophy of Race and Racism
Term: Fall
Credits: 4
In this course, students enter contemporary philosophical debates about race and racism. They will
explore questions such as: 1) What is race? Do races exist, or are races properly deﬁned a mere
ﬁction? If race doesn’t exist, should we retain the concept of race, or does conserving race
exacerbate racism? 2) How does racism operate today? Is individual racism best understood as
fundamentally a matter of beliefs, attitudes, or behaviors? How best to combat racism? Many of our
discussions will be anchored in contemporary racial politics. Issues to be addressed include: white
privilege, colorblindness, implicit racial bias, race and the prison system, and more. Educational
Studies, Political Economy, Africana Studies elective. Oﬀered every other year.
PHIL 221 Money, Markets, and Morals
Term: Spring
Credits: 4
This course explores a host of issues at the intersection of philosophy, politics, and economics,
especially issues concerning wealth and its relation to human ﬂourishing. Among the questions
we’ll consider are: What is capitalism? What are the pros and cons of organizing our economic
lives that way? What is socialism? What are its pros and cons? What is exploitation and when (if
ever) are workers exploited? What is private property and is there any moral justiﬁcation for it?
How is wealth created? Is there anything unjust about wealthy inequality? If so, what role (if any)
should the government play in bringing about wealthy equality? What is the proper aim (or aims) of
businesses: Proﬁts? Beneﬁtting employees? Beneﬁting the local community? Alleviating poverty? If
all of those, which takes precedence when those aims conﬂict? What should be for sale and what
shouldn’t? For example, should we be allowed to sell our organs, or drugs, or our sexual services?
What constitutes ethical pay? For example, are CEOs making ﬁve hundred times their employees
paid too much? Should there be a minimum wage? If so, why and what should it be? If not, why
not? Finally, are there any standard market practices that are morally oﬀ limits such as price-
gouging, sweatshops, or the factory farming of animals?
PHIL 222 Ethics
Term: Fall
Credits: 4
This course will introduce students to classic and contemporary debates within ethics--the study of
how we ought to live. Some of the questions we'll consider include: What makes a life worth living?
What is happiness and how can I reliably achieve it? What is a good person and how can I reliably
become one? Which acts are right, which are wrong, and what makes them right or wrong? Is there
really any such thing as rightness and wrongness after all or is all this ethics stuﬀ just made up? If
there is such a thing as rightness or wrongness, what does its existence depend on: God, my
culture, nothing at all? And why should I care about morality anyway when ignoring its demands
helps me achieve my goals? By the end of the course, students will have acquired some of the
main tools necessary for grappling with these questions (and questions like them), and they’ll be
encouraged to defend their conclusions with reasons and arguments.
Degree Requirements
F1
PHIL 225 Justice, Equality, and Liberty
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 4
Drawing primarily on contemporary sources in politics, philosophy and economics, this course
examines rival visions of the good society. We will analyze competing conceptions of justice and
the ways in which those views are modiﬁed by commitments to liberty and equality. Thematic
questions will include: What do human beings owe to one another? How is personal responsibility
related to social responsibility? What are the causes and consequences of wealth and poverty?
What is the character of freedom? What does equality require? How should rights and duties be
properly understood? A good portion of the course will be devoted to the intellectual and moral
foundations of the free society and to critiques of the assumption that the good society is “the free
society.” The course will include public lecture, debates and conversations with visiting political
theorists, economists, entrepreneurs and public oﬃcials.
/uni00A0
PHIL 230 Environmental Ethics
Term: Spring
Credits: 4
This course introduces students to philosophical debates in environmental ethics. We will explore
questions such as: What aspects of the non-human world are morally considerable? Are trees or
ecosystems just as morally considerable as sentient animals? If so, how should we adjudicate
between competing moral claims in the natural world? Do high-emitting nations have a greater
moral obligation to mitigate the eﬀects of climate change than poorer nations? Are we morally
obligated to consider the impact our current environmental behavior will have on future humans?
Topics to be studied include anthropocentrism, animal welfare, the moral status of nature,
population growth, climate change, feminist and anti-racist approaches to environmental justice,
and more. Oﬀered every other year.
PHIL 240 Philosophy of Religion
Term: Spring
Credits: 4
In this course, we’ll consider a range of philosophical questions about western religion and
religious belief. Among them are: What are the best arguments that God exists? What are the best
arguments that he doesn’t? What is faith? Can it ever be rational to have faith? Lots of religions
claim to be authenticated by miracles. Can we rationally believe that any of them really happened?
If there is a God, why does he allow so much suﬀering? And why doesn’t he reveal himself to
people who sincerely want to know him? If, however, there is no God, then where did the universe
come from? And why does the universe seem ﬁne-tuned to support intelligent life like us (just as
we’d expect if God exists and cares for us)? What role (if any) would God play in making our lives
meaningful? And given all the disagreement about religion among very smart, well-informed,
sincere people, are we really justiﬁed in being conﬁdent that our own view about religious matters
(e.g., theist, atheist, agnostic) is correct?
/uni00A0
/uni00A0
PHIL 250 Topics in Philosophy
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 4
A seminar in which topics of current interest are presented and discussed. Topics may involve both
classical and contemporary
philosophical texts. Typically, topics focus on issues that raise signiﬁcant moral questions in
contemporary society.
Degree Requirements
F1
PHIL 301 Philosophy, Power, and Politics
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 4
In an attempt to make sense of our political interests, we often use shorthand. That is, we identify
with a group of like-minded individuals who seem to share at least some of our interests--examples
of these ideologies include, but are not limited to, liberalism, conservatism, communitarianism,
libertarianism, capitalism, socialism, communism, Marxism, feminism, anarchism, environmentalism,
and anti-racism. In this course, we examine some of the modern ideologies—organized and
related sets of ideas about politics that support and modify each other helping to forge political
alliances and social movements. Each of these ideologies posits a certain account of human
nature, the good life, the proper balance between freedom and equality, the nature of power, the
evidence of prosperity, and the role of government. Each of these ideologies, and those
individuals who espouse them, promise to make the lives of their constituents better than they are
in the present. These ideologies are premised on tradeoﬀs, preferences, and diﬀering accounts of
human ﬂourishing.
Students who have completed POLS 214 may not enroll in PHIL 301.
/uni00A0
PHIL 311 Philosophy of Language
Term: Spring
Credits: 4
The Philosophy of Language attempts to understand the nature of language and its relationship to
speakers, their thoughts, and the world. In this introductory course in the Philosophy of language
students examine views on the nature of meaning, reference, truth, the relationship between
language and our speech acts, and the role language plays in our thought. (Course oﬀered
intermittently.)
PHIL 315 Philosophy of Science
Term: Spring
Credits: 4
In Philosophy of Science (and nature) we will examine key questions and central issues in the
diﬀerent ways we can develop knowledge about the world: what is science? what is nature? what
is knowledge?/uni00A0 how ought we to evaluate the veracity of our knowledge?/uni00A0 what are the
implications of diﬀerent approaches to the ways in which we understand our status as human
beings, the natural world, and the relationships between humans and nature? We will consider the
historical development of what we have come to understand as modern science and
contemporary debates in the philosophy of science.
/uni00A0
/uni00A0
PHIL 318 Metaphysics
Term: Fall
Credits:  4
Metaphysics includes a vast range of topics and issues—from the nature of time and numbers to
the constitution of material objects. In this course, we will focus on three central, related issues.
First, the dispute between realists and nominalists regarding universals: Do similar things share
something in common that explains their similarity? Second, possible worlds: When I say, “I could
have been killed!” what makes that statement true? And third, the dispute between realists and
anti-realists: Can we accurately divide nature, or mind-independent reality, at its “joints”? Are there
any such “joints” in the ﬁrst place? We’ll consider not only how the realism/antirealism debate
applies to natural kinds like water and tigers, but also to social kinds like race, gender, and
sexuality. Along the way, we’ll look at some feminist views regarding how metaphysics may (and
should) be concerned with the ways in which our views about reality either sustain or challenge
oppression.
PHIL 319 Epistemology
Term: Fall
Credits:  4
Epistemology seeks answers to questions like: What is knowledge? Where does it come from?
When am I justiﬁed in believing something? What makes my beliefs rational? Do I have rights or
duties to believe certain things and not others? How are people harmed in their capacity to know?
This course looks at several debates in contemporary epistemology, but does not presuppose any
exposure to the relevant literature.
PHIL 320 The Ethics of Artiﬁcial Intelligence
Term: Spring
Credits:  4
AI technology has the potential to dwarf the impact of other revolutionary technologies such as the
printing press, electricity, antibiotics, and the internet. But AI is developing so quickly that there has
been little time to reﬂect on the nature, scope, and (dis)value of that impact. This has given rise to a
host of pressing moral questions that we are only beginning to consider (let alone answer). In this
class, we'll consider some of those questions. Among them are these: How might AI transform the
world for unimaginable good? How might it pose an existential threat, and what can we do to
mitigate it? Should governments attempt to regulate the development of AI, and if so, how? Can AI
make moral judgments? If so, what moral judgments should we program them to make? And how
do we avoid programming our own biases and moral failings into them? Could AI become
conscious, and if so, what (if any) moral obligations might this impose on humans? For instance, can
AI have rights, interests, or welfare? Could I merge with a superintelligent AI, becoming
superintelligent myself? What would that even mean, and would it be morally OK for me to do it?
Could I befriend, fall in love with, or even have sex with, an AI? If so, should I? Will AI lead to mass
unemployment, and if so, what should be done for those who are left jobless? How might AI be
used by militaries, governments, employers, and others with interests in surveillance and what (if
any) moral obligations might this impose on those with the technology? Finally, how can AI be used
to capture our attention and engagement and what obligations (if any) do we have to resist such
attempts?
Degree Requirements
F8
PHIL 321 Philosophy and Religion
Term: Fall
Credits: 4
Philosophy and religion—reason and faith—have always been at odds. We could begin with Job’s
argument with God about the justice behind his torments and God’s preemptory response. More
directly, Socrates was condemned to death, in part, because he did not believe in the gods of
Athens. In this course, we will examine how philosophers have approached (or avoided) the idea
of a deity and particularly of the providential deity of revealed religions. Among the readings will
be Plato, St. Thomas Aquinas, Rene Descartes, John Locke, David Hume, and Friedrich Nietzsche.
PHIL 322 Medical Ethics
Term: Spring
Credits: 4
An examination of issues concerning the practice of medicine, the application of medical
technology, and the business of health care delivery that have signiﬁcant implications for an
understanding of the good life and/or moral duties and obligations. (Course oﬀered every other
year.)
PHIL 325 Ethics of Identity
Term: Fall
Credits: 4
This course introduces students to philosophical debate on identity. What is identity? What makes
an identity ‘mine' to claim? What or who should determine the answer to this question? Today’s
political climate is rife with tension over such questions. From gender to race to culture to religion,
what it takes to be a ‘good and proper’ member of a given identity is constantly and anxiously
debated. Student inquiry will focus especially on membership criteria for a given identity. What
should determine whether one counts as a member of a given identity category, such as a given
sex, gender, or race? How much weight should be placed on natural features (e.g., biological traits),
social features (e.g., treatment by one's larger society), or personal features (e.g., self-identiﬁcation
or narrative experience)? Students will be introduced to inﬂuential philosophical writing on these
topics, while paying particular attention to recent work in the metaphysics of race and gender. This
course is open to all students - in and outside of philosophy.
PHIL 328 Philosophy of Mind and
Consciousness
Term: Fall
Credits: 4
An examination of the nature, powers, and limitations of the human mind, as well as its relationship
to the body. These issues will be investigated through key works in the history of philosophy as
well as various contemporary works in philosophy and/or related ﬁelds (e.g., biology, psychology).
(Course oﬀered in alternate years; scheduled for 2019-2020.)
PHIL 333 Existentialism
Term: Fall
Credits: 4
An examination of prominent existentialists from the 19th and 20th Centuries. Issues include the
idea that human beings’ deepest desire is for meaning in their lives, and that the primary issue in
human life is whether and how we own up to this. (Course oﬀered in alternate years.)
Degree Requirements
F1
PHIL 345 Modern Political Philosophy
Term: Fall
Credits: 4
Where, according to the moderns, did classical political philosophy go wrong in their
understanding of nature, of human nature, of justice, of civic virtue, of the purpose of political order,
of the best political order? Why was a new beginning necessary? Following that new beginning,
modern political philosophy is a series of radical critiques of previous modern thinkers. In dispute
are questions about equality, liberty, political legitimacy, democracy, and ultimately, whether reason
is capable of solving such moral and political puzzles deﬁnitively. Among the readings in the
course will be works by Niccolo Machiavelli, John Locke, David Hume, and Friedrich Nietzsche.
/uni00A0
PHIL 355 Feminist Philosophy
Term: Spring
Credits: 4
This course introduces students to debates in feminist philosophy with a particular focus on
contemporary theory. Students will learn that feminism is best understood not as a uniﬁed theory
but a ﬁeld of ongoing contestations. Throughout the course, students will wrestle with the following
questions: What is oppression? Who is accurately characterized as an ‘oppressed’ subject? What
are sexism and misogyny? Can privileged men be victims of sexism too? How best to deﬁne the
categories ‘male’ or ‘female,’ ‘woman’ or ‘man’? How should genderqueer, intersex and
transgender identities inform our answer to this question? Topics to be discussed include: sex,
gender, gender identity, oppression, sexism, misogyny, adaptive preferences and more. Oﬀered
every other year; contributes to GSS minor.
/uni00A0
PHIL 399 Tutorial for Honors Candidates
Term: Spring
Credits: 1
Junior Philosophy majors wishing to read for honors are required to enroll in this preparatory
tutorial. Although required for honors,
enrollment in this course does not guarantee acceptance into the Honors Program.
PHIL 401 Advanced Topics
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 4
An advanced study of speciﬁc philosophical topics. The course may focus on a central
philosophical ﬁgure (e.g. Kant), a speciﬁc period (e.g. medieval), a major movement (e.g.
empiricism), or a speciﬁc theme (e.g. procreation). Recent 401 courses include The Ethics of
Captivity and The Ethics of Identity. Oﬀered intermittently.
PHIL 475 Problems in Philosophy
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 4
A tutorial course for senior or junior students. Each student chooses an individual topic in
consultation with the departmental faculty.
PHIL 476 Problems in Philosophy
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 4
A tutorial course for senior or junior students. Each student chooses an individual topic in
consultation with the departmental faculty.
PHIL 486 Senior Seminar
Term: Spring
Credits: 4
Senior seminar is designed as a capstone experience in Philosophy, requiring both oral and
written work. The seminar culminates in the
senior paper, a sustained, sophisticated discussion of a signiﬁcant philosophical issue.
PHIL 495 Honors Tutorial
Term: Fall
Credits: 4
A course dedicated to the development of an Honors essay.
PHIL 496 Honors Tutorial
Term: Spring
Credits: 4
A course dedicated to the development of an Honors essay.
PHYS 101 Astronomy
Credits: 3
An introduction to modern astronomy, including the celestial sphere; Solar System planets and
exoplanets; stellar classiﬁcation and evolution; galaxies; and cosmology. Must be taken
concurrently with Astronomy Laboratory
Linked Corequisite: PHYS 102 Astronomy Laboratory
Degree Requirements
F7
PHYS 102 Astronomy Laboratory
Credits: 1
Observations of the Moon, planets, stars, and nebulae,using the naked eye and telescopes./uni00A0
Familiarity with small telescopes./uni00A0 Laboratory exercises (computer-based and hands-on) involving
astronomical data and concepts when the weather is poor. Must be taken concurrently with
Astronomy.
/uni00A0
Linked Corequisite: PHYS 101 Astronomy
Degree Requirements
F7
PHYS 105 Physics of Sound and Music
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 4
An introduction for non-science majors to the physics of sound with applications to sound
production by musical instruments. Topics include the physical behavior of sound, musical scales,
human perception of sound, and sound production by acoustic instruments. As part of the course,
students are required to fabricate and demonstrate a musical instrument of their own design. The
course and its integrated laboratory are normally scheduled for two consecutive class periods.
Degree Requirements
F7
PHYS 107 Introductory Topics in Physics
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits:  4
Topics, designed for the non-science major, in physics, astronomy, and interdisciplinary subjects,
including modern developments in physics and closely allied ﬁelds, atmospheric processes,
nanotechnology, biophysics, geophysics, and science writing.
Degree Requirements
F7
PHYS 109 Introductory Physics for the Life
Sciences I
Term: Fall, Summer
Credits:  3
Suitable for life science students, this algebra-based physics course is the ﬁrst in a year-long
sequence covering the classical ﬁelds of physics. Topics include Newtonian mechanics, including
rotational motion, and wave motion.
Prerequisite: Knowledge of algebra and trigonometry.
Corequisite: PHYS 113
Successful completion of PHYS 109 and PHYS 113 required to satisfy F7
Degree Requirements
F7
PHYS 110 Introductory Physics for the Life
Sciences II
Term: Spring, Summer
Credits:  3
Suitable for life science students, this algebra-based physics course is the second in a year-long
sequence covering the classical ﬁelds of physics. Topics include thermodynamics,
electromagnetism, and the optical properties of matter.
Prerequisite: PHYS 109 or PHYS 111
Corequisite: Physics 114
Successful completion of PHYS 110 and PHYS 114 required to satisfy F7
/uni00A0
Degree Requirements
F7
Prerequisites
Introductory Physics for the Life Sciences I
Introductory Physics for the Physical Sciences I
PHYS 111 Introductory Physics for the Physical
Sciences I
Term: Fall
Credits: 3
Suitable for both science and non-science majors, this calculus-based course is the ﬁrst in a year-
long sequence covering the classical ﬁelds of physics. Topics include Newtonian mechanics,
including rotational motion, and wave motion.
Prerequisite or Corequisite: MATH 112 or equivalent.
Corequisites: PHYS 113
Successful completion of PHYS 111 and PHYS 113 required to satisfy F6 and F7.
Degree Requirements
F6
F7
PHYS 112 Introductory Physics for Physical
Sciences II
Term: Spring
Credits: 3
Suitable for both science and non-science majors, this calculus-based course is the second in a
year-long sequence covering the classical ﬁelds of physics. Topics include thermodynamics,
electromagnetism, and optical properties of matter. Must be taken concurrently with Physics 114L./uni00A0
Prerequisite or Corequisite: MATH 122 or equivalent
Corequisite: PHYS 114
Successful completion of PHYS 112 and PHYS 114 required to satisfy F6 and F7.
Degree Requirements
F6
F7
Prerequisites
Introductory Physics for the Physical Sciences I
PHYS 113 Introductory Physics Laboratory I
Term: Fall
Credits: 1
Basic experiments in topics covered in the Introductory Physics courses. Includes extensive use of
computer-based data collection and analysis. Must be taken concurrently with Physics 109 or 111.
Successful completion of PHYS 109 and PHYS 113 required to satisfy F7
Successful completion of PHYS 111 and PHYS 113 required to satisfy F6 and F7
/uni00A0
Degree Requirements
F6
F7
PHYS 114 Introductory Physics Laboratory II
Term: Spring
Credits: 1
Basic experiments in topics covered in the Introductory Physics courses. Includes extensive use of
computer-based data collection and analysis. Must be taken concurrently with Physics 110 or 112.
Successful completion of PHYS 110 and PHYS 114 required to satisfy F7
Successful completion of PHYS 112 and PHYS 114 required to satisfy F6 and F7
/uni00A0
/uni00A0
Degree Requirements
F7
PHYS 205 Observational Astronomy
Term: Spring
Credits: 4
A practical introduction to the methods and techniques of modern observational astronomy.
Students will describe the empirical properties of celestial objects; articulate how telescopes and
cameras work; use small telescopes to take data; analyze astronomical data; and interact with
modern astronomical databases.
PHYS 207 Intermediate Topics in Physics
Term: Spring
Credits: 1-4
Special topics in physics for students who have completed the introductory physics sequence of
courses (PHYS 111-112 or PHYS 109-110). (Course oﬀered as interest warrants.)
/uni00A0
Prerequisites
Introductory Physics for the Life Sciences II
Introductory Physics for Physical Sciences II
PHYS 211 Modern Physics
Term: Fall
Credits: 4
A survey of relativistic and quantum physics, including topics selected from: special relativity,
photons, the atom, matter waves, introductory quantum mechanics,/uni00A0nuclear properties and
processes, elementary particles, molecules,/uni00A0condensed matter, and cosmology.
Prerequisites
Introductory Physics for Physical Sciences II
Integral Calculus
PHYS 213 Intermediate Laboratory
Term: Fall
Credits: 1
The application of advanced experimental techniques to the exploration of 20th century physics
concepts. Includes measurements of fundamental constants, properties of electrons, atomic
energy levels, atomic and nuclear scattering, etc.
Prerequisites
Introductory Physics Laboratory I
Introductory Physics Laboratory II
PHYS 215 Physics in Medicine
Term: Fall
Credits: 4
Our understanding of physics has driven the advancement of technology used to diagnose and
treat disease since the beginning of the 20th century. This course covers these technologies and
the underlying physics. These technologies include, but are not limited to, x-rays, computed
tomography (CT), magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), positron emission tomography (PET),
radiation therapy, and ultrasound. We will also discuss, among other background topics, how x-
rays, gamma rays, and sound waves are produced and the eﬀects of radiation on matter and the
body.
Prerequisite: PHYS 110 or PHYS 112
PHYS 220 Engineering Fabrication
Term: Spring
Credits: 2
This course provides students an opportunity to develop basic skills in machining and fabrication.
Students will learn proper safety procedures and the use of machine and hand tools, and newer
fabrication techniques such as three-dimensional printing and laser cutting. Topics include but are
not limited to: measurement, material selection, machining, threading, forging, joining, computer-
aided design.
Prerequisites
Introductory Physics Laboratory II
PHYS 250 Mathematical Methods of Physics
Term: Spring
Credits: 4
A survey of analytical and numerical techniques useful in physics, including topics selected from:
multivariable calculus, optimization, ordinary and partial diﬀerential equations, complex numbers,
special functions, linear algebra, probability, Fourier series, Fourier and Laplace transforms, and
numerical methods.
/uni00A0
Prerequisites
Introductory Physics for Physical Sciences II
Integral Calculus
Multivariable Calculus
PHYS 260 The Science of Climate Change
Term: Spring
Credits: 4
The Earth’s climate is a complex system with many components, including the atmosphere, ocean,
land, and the creatures that inhabit these spaces. This course will address the science behind
climate change. Speciﬁc topics will include: forcings and feedbacks; the greenhouse eﬀect;
radiation transfer and global energy balance; atmospheric and ocean circulation; ice-climate
interactions; global climate models; renewable energy; and geoengineering.
/uni00A0
Prerequisites: PHYS 110 or 112, and PHYS 114
/uni00A0
PHYS 301 Electromagnetic Theory
Term: Fall
Credits: 4
A study of the fundamental properties of electric and magnetic ﬁelds in vacuum. (Course oﬀered in
Fall semester of odd numbered years.)
Prerequisites
Introductory Physics for Physical Sciences II
Mathematical Methods of Physics
PHYS 302 Advanced Electromagnetic Theory
Term: Spring
Credits: 4
A study of static and dynamic electromagnetic ﬁelds in matter, electromagnetic waves, and
radiation; also, a brief introduction to relativistic electrodynamics. (Course oﬀered as interest
warrants.)
Prerequisites
Electromagnetic Theory
PHYS 304 Electronics
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 4
The basic concepts of analog and digital electronics with weekly laboratory exercises. AC and DC
topics make use of phasor and complex algebra notation. Digital topics include diodes, transistors,
operational ampliﬁers, and integrated circuits, making use of Boolean algebra and logic. (Course
oﬀered as interest warrants.)
Pre-requisites: PHYS 110 or 112, and Phys 114
PHYS 305 Dynamics
Term: Fall
Credits: 4
Basic principles of the dynamics of particles and rigid bodies presented within the framework of
classical mechanics. Topics include Newtonian mechanics, oscillating systems, general motion of a
particle in three dimensions, mechanics of rigid bodies, and an introduction to Lagrangian and
Hamiltonian mechanics. (Course oﬀered in Fall semester of even numbered years.)
Prerequisites
Introductory Physics for Physical Sciences II
Mathematical Methods of Physics
PHYS 307 Advanced Topics in Physics
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 4
Topics for the intermediate-level physics- or natural-science student, often including but not limited
to subjects such as nuclear physics, robotics, medical physics,/uni00A0statics and mechanics of solids, ﬂuid
mechanics. (Course oﬀered as interest warrants.)
Prerequisites
Modern Physics
PHYS 310 Astrophysics
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 4
An introduction to modern astrophysics. This course will normally include the following: a brief
introduction to the celestial sphere and astronomy terminology; stellar structure and evolution;
structure and evolution of galaxies; and cosmology. (Course oﬀered as interest warrants.)
Prerequisites
Modern Physics
PHYS 325 Optics
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 4
A study of contemporary physical optics, including diﬀraction theory (Fraunhofer and Fresnel),
polarization, coherence theory and lasers, Fourier and nonlinear optics. (Course oﬀered as interest
warrants.)
Prerequisites
Modern Physics
Mathematical Methods of Physics
PHYS 401 Quantum Mechanics
Term: Spring
Credits: 4
Introduction to topics in quantum physics, including observables and measurement, position and
momentum representations, wave mechanics, the time-dependent Schrödinger equation, Hilbert
space vectors and operators, the Hamiltonian, potential wells and the harmonic operator,
introduction to Dirac notation, scattering theory, the Hydrogen atom, angular momentum, and
spin./uni00A0(Course oﬀered Spring semester of even numbered years.)
Prerequisites
Modern Physics
Mathematical Methods of Physics
PHYS 406 Thermal Physics
Term: Spring
Credits: 4
The study of thermodynamics and statistical mechanics from the unifying viewpoint of quantum
theory. Topics include: Gibbs and Boltzmann factors; Fermi-Dirac and Bose-Einstein distribution
functions; temperature, pressure, and the monatomic ideal gas; thermodynamic potentials.
Application of theory to metals, white dwarf stars, photons, and phonons will be considered.
(Course oﬀered Spring semester of odd numbered years.)
Prerequisites
Modern Physics
Mathematical Methods of Physics
PHYS 451 Research in Physics
Term: Fall
Credits: 1-4
Experimental or theoretical work of an advanced nature, carried out independently by the student
with a faculty mentor. Projects can be selected from a variety of topics involving or designed by the
student in consultation with the faculty mentor.
PHYS 452 Research in Physics
Term: Spring
Credits: 1-4
Experimental or theoretical work of an advanced nature, carried out independently by the student
with a faculty mentor. Projects can be selected from a variety of topics involving or designed by the
student in consultation with the faculty mentor.
PHYS 486 Senior Seminar
Term: Spring
Credits: 2
Examination of the unifying themes, central concepts, and links between discipline areas of
physics through the preparation and presentation of research seminars, discussions of ethical
issues in science, and reviews of current physics literature. Open to senior physics majors only.
PHYS 495 Honors Tutorial
Term: Fall
Credits: 4
Open to candidates for Honors in Physics. A minimum of 4 credits per semester must be earned in
the senior year to fulﬁll college honors requirements. A minimum cumulative and major gpa of 3.5
is required at the time of application for honors and upon graduation. Students should familiarize
themselves with college and departmental honors procedures before enrolling.
PHYS 496 Honors Tutorial
Term: Fall
Credits: 4
Open to candidates for Honors in Physics. A minimum of 4 credits per semester must be earned in
the senior year to fulﬁll college honors requirements. A minimum cumulative and major gpa of 3.5
is required at the time of application for honors and upon graduation. Students should familiarize
themselves with college and departmental honors procedures before enrolling.
PSYC 105 Special Topics in Psychology
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 4
This course is designed for the non-psychology major and will examine a diﬀerent general-interest
topic each time it is taught. Students will be exposed to the ﬁve major theoretical perspectives and
to research methods as they pertain to a thematic topic such as ‘close relationships,’ ‘psychology
of the self,’ ‘drugs, brain, and behavior,’ etc.
Degree Requirements
F2
F8
PSYC 150 Introduction to Psychological Science
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 4
This course will cover major content domains in the discipline of Psychology, including biological,
cognitive, developmental, social and personality, and mental health. In addition, themes that are
relevant to all of these domains and that link content areas will be discussed, with emphasis on
ethics and cultural/social diversity. This course is also intended to foster an appreciation of the role
of scientiﬁc reasoning in understanding human behavior and the mind. Students will be introduced
to the major theoretical perspectives and to the basic principles of psychological research
methods.
Degree Requirements
F8
PSYC 200 Research Methods and Statistics
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 4
Students will be taught critical thinking and scientiﬁc reasoning skills. Topics include: philosophy of
science and the scientiﬁc method, measurement theory (reliability and validity), the basics of
research design (control variables, rival hypotheses, and confoundings), and elementary statistical
analysis./uni00A0
Prerequisites
Introduction to Psychological Science
PSYC 211 Statistical Methods
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 4
Statistical methods are an integral part of social sciences, particularly psychology, as they provide
the tools that are needed to reveal patterns in complex behavior. Students will develop an
appreciation of the role of statistics and knowledge of the major tests that demonstrate diﬀerences
and relationships. Math 111 cannot be substituted for this course.
Degree Requirements
F6
Prerequisites
Introduction to Psychological Science
PSYC 216 Perception and Sensation
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 4
A survey of theories and research concerning sensation and perception focusing on how we
construct an internal representation of the external world from the evidence of our senses.
Prerequisites
Introduction to Psychological Science
PSYC 218 Psychology of Addiction
Term: Spring
Credits: 4
Through an analysis of primary research, personal narratives, media depictions and therapeutic
protocols, students will learn the biological, behavioral, cognitive, and sociocultural factors leading
to addictive behaviors. Through a health equity lens, and an emphasis on project-based learning,
the course will use addiction to highlight disparities in health status, treatment access, and
outcomes across racial, ethnic and socioeconomic groups.
/uni00A0
Prerequisites
Introduction to Psychological Science
PSYC 220 Psychology of Health
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 4
Traditional Western conceptualization of health divides our experiences into physical and mental -
body and mind, and also into wellness and illness. Yet many other cultures understand health very
diﬀerently. Increasingly, Western models of health care aim to approach health from a more
integrated and culturally competent model. This is in response to recognition that current leading
causes of mortality (such as substance abuse, overeating, unprotected sex, and suicide) are driven
by psycho-social factors. It is also increasingly seen as necessary in order to develop health
interventions that serve culturally diverse populations. This course will give students access to
critical knowledge in the burgeoning ﬁeld of health psychology, which aims to address these
issues. Course material will cover basic theory, research, and intervention methods in the ﬁeld,
integrating content from biology, psychology, sociology, and anthropology. Based on this
knowledge, students will create proposals for health psychology interventions in their area of
interest, empowering them with the skills necessary to be leaders of progress in the areas of
health and wellness. Health psychology is a broad and upcoming ﬁeld important for those
interested in public health, medicine, and psychology.
Prerequisites
Introduction to Psychological Science
PSYC 222 Educational Psychology
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 4
Theories and research on human learning and teaching, especially in educational settings. This
course will cover the current theories of teaching and learning processes from a variety of
perspectives, with emphasis placed on applications of research to practice and policy. Cognitive
processes, individual diﬀerences, strategies for instruction, motivation, critical thinking, and self-
regulation of learning will be stressed. /uni00A0
Prerequisites
Introduction to Psychological Science
Foundations of Education
PSYC 224 Psychological Disorders
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 4
The phenomenology, etiology, and treatment of the major forms of psychological disorders,
including schizophrenia, mood disorders, anxiety disorders, and personality disorders. We will
evaluate theories and research concerning these disorders from psychobiological, behavioral,
cognitive, sociocultural, and psychodynamic perspectives./uni00A0
Prerequisites
Introduction to Psychological Science
PSYC 229 Developmental Psychology: Infancy
and Childhood
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 4
A study of developmental principles, focusing on research relevant to prenatal development,
infancy, and childhood. Theories of emotional, cognitive, and social development will be examined.
Students will consider the implications of developmental research for social and educational policy
that aﬀects the welfare of children. F11 sections include a 10-hour community-based learning
requirement.
Pre-requisite: Psychology 150 or Education 201
Degree Requirements
F11
PSYC 230 Adolescent and Early Adult
Development
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 4
Theories and research on adolescent and early adult development will be applied to educational
and social policy issues pertaining to identity work and the accomplishment of other
developmental tasks typically undertaken during the teens and twenties.
/uni00A0
Pre-requisite: Psychology 150 or Education 201
PSYC 231 Psychology of Aging
Term: Fall
Credits: 4
This course will explore how cognition, emotion, social relations, and mental health change with
healthy aging, and to a lesser extent, pathological aging. Major theories and research ﬁndings in
these areas will be discussed and applied to the everyday functioning of this growing segment of
our population.
/uni00A0
Degree Requirements
F11
Prerequisites
Introduction to Psychological Science
PSYC 232 Psychology of Gender and Language
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 4
Students will consider research and theory on the ways that gender is established and enacted in
language structures and in discourse practices. We will critically examine research on gender
diﬀerences in language use and we will play with linguistic forms and speaking styles that seem to
be gendered in some cultural communities. Students will collect data on their own and their
classmates’ speech habits and will endeavor to develop discourse skills that allow them to be
intentional about appropriating and resisting gender norms, as the situation demands.
PSYC 240 Psychology of Race and Social Class:
A Cross-Cultural Comparison
Term: Maymester
Credits: 4
Coupled with a 3-week study abroad experience in Johannesburg and Cape Town, South Africa,
students will examine topics of prejudice and discrimination, principally regarding race, ethnicity,
and social class, and how these social constructions diﬀer cross-culturally./uni00A0 Prior to traveling to
South Africa, students will examine social psychological theories relating individual and institutional
practices of prejudice and discriminariton, as well as conceptualizations and operationalizations of
race and social class./uni00A0 We will articulate similarities and diﬀerences in the historical development of
race relations within the two countries./uni00A0 While in country, students will participate in class meetings
(allowing continued development as we read, discuss, and reﬂect), visit historical and cultural sites,
attend guest lectures by South African academics, and interact with South Africans.
Degree Requirements
F9
PSYC 241 Health and Mental Health Disparities
in an International Context: The Case of
Thailand
Term: Maymester
Credits: 4
This course presents students with an opportunity to learn about contemporary issues, problems,
and controversies in global health and mental health through a 28-day immersive study abroad
experience in Thailand. Students will be able to further their cross-cultural and critical thinking skills
and learn how to engage and work ethically in a complex tapestry of social, economic, political,
and environmental determinants of health. A psychosocial model of health will be explored while
comparing Western/Eastern perspectives, urban/rural locations, and majority/underserved
populations (gender, socioeconomic, race, age, disability, etc.). Students will observe the
interaction between health systems and public policy in developing/emerging global economy
areas, and explore the role of Thai, international, private sector, and non-government-organizations
in addressing health and mental health needs. While on site visits, students will learn about Eastern
and Thai perspectives on mental health and health, including traditional and non-traditional
approaches to treatment and health. Through these site visits, students will also have the
opportunity to focus on particular global health issues like integrated models of health; traﬃcking
of humans, illegal substances, and arms; refugees and migration; communicable diseases;
HIV/AIDS prevention and treatment; safe water and food access; the impact of climate change;
and the emergence of wellness and medical tourism.
Degree Requirements
F9
F11
PSYC 280 Psychology of Gender and Sexuality
Term: Fall
Credits: 4
This course will examine the ways in which human experiences are shaped by gender and
sexuality. We will explore psychological connections with such topics as gender identity and
expression, gender stereotypes, transgender experiences, human sexuality, and sexual
orientation. This course will emphasize health equity, including how gender and sexual orientation
relate with health outcomes, as well as the role of psychology in addressing gender and sexual
orientation-related health disparities.
Prerequisites
Introduction to Psychological Science
Introduction to Gender and Sexuality Studies
PSYC 306 Psycholinguistics
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 4
A discussion of recent theory and research on human language. Topics to be covered include
language development, the relationship between language and thought, and the relationship
between language and culture.
Non-psychology majors with a special interest in language or theatre are welcomed in this course.
Prerequisites
Introduction to Psychological Science
PSYC 311 Counseling Psychology
Credits: 4
This course will survey the theories and techniques used by counseling psychologists in their work
with clients. The course will draw on therapeutic outcomes research literature to discuss and
practice skills that are necessary for helping relationships. We will discuss the ways that various
schools of thought within counseling psychology have used the counseling skills and the evidence
base for such applications. We will also discuss the variety of elements that inﬂuence the
application of those skills (e.g. cultural and ethnic/racial diversity, family, and social context).
Prerequisites
Introduction to Psychological Science
PSYC 315 Industrial-Organizational Psychology
Term: Spring
Credits: 4
This course will provide students with a broad introduction to the ﬁeld of Industrial-Organizational
(I-O) Psychology. Through readings, discussions, activities, and a ﬁnal project students will learn to:
Deﬁne the ﬁeld of I-O Psychology and explain some of the ways I-O Psychologists contribute to
organizations; Critically evaluate I-O related readings; Apply I-O knowledge and theories to
workplace contexts; and Prepare and present presentation materials in a professional manner.
/uni00A0
Prerequisites: PSYC 211 or ECON 290 or MATH 211
PSYC 318 Clinical Neuroscience
Term: Fall
Credits: 4
A critical examination of the neurobiological mechanisms of mental illness. Current biobehavioral
perspectives of potential causes and treatments of psychological disorders such as schizophrenia,
eating disorders, drug abuse, depression, and obsessive-compulsive disorder are considered. An
emphasis is placed on the interaction of nature and nurture (e.g. stress) contributing to both
vulnerability and resilience to mental illness.
Pre-requisite: NEUR 270 or PSYC 200
PSYC 323 Social Psychology
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 4
Study of social behavior, including such topics as interpersonal attraction, altruism, aggression,
conformity, group dynamics, intergroup conﬂict and negotiation, attitude change, person
perception, social dilemmas, and social cognition.
/uni00A0
PSYC 324 Evidence-based Therapies
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 4
This course is a survey of the empirical development, implementation, and dissemination of current
practices of psychotherapy. In particular, the course will utilize scientiﬁc knowledge to answer the
question, “For whom does this psychological intervention work, and under what conditions?” The
importance of multicultural contributions and competencies will also be emphasized throughout
the course. Case conceptualization skills will be learned and practiced, using DSM-5 diagnoses to
inform selection and implementation of an indicated evidence-based therapy./uni00A0
Prerequisites
Introduction to Psychological Science
Psychological Disorders
PSYC 326 Learning and Motivation
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 4
This course will cover theories of learning and motivation. Emphasis will be placed on individual
diﬀerences and underlying cognitive processes involved in learning, as well as behavioral and
social cognitive perspectives of learning, and on the theories and inﬂuences on motivation to
learn. We will also cover the science of studying learning and motivation, and application of the
material, including to students’ own learning and motivation within and outside of the classroom.
Prerequisites
Introduction to Psychological Science
Statistical Methods
PSYC 327 Cognitive Processes
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 4
This course is an in-depth exploration of human cognitive abilities, including perceptual processes,
attention, memory, language, and thinking. In addition to providing an overall understanding of
these topics, this course examines the research methodology and theoretical frameworks used to
study cognitive processes, how these processes can be applied to everyday life, and current
issues in the ﬁeld of cognitive psychology.
PSYC 330 Community Psychology
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 4
This course provides an introduction to community psychology, focusing on historical foundations,
theory, methods, and practice. In this course, students will learn about the basic theories and
concepts that deﬁne community psychology while becoming familiar with examples of eﬀective
community action and research. Students will have the opportunity to examine the potential
relevance of community psychology for addressing social problems.
Degree Requirements
F11
Prerequisites
Introduction to Psychological Science
Introduction to Urban Studies
PSYC 338 Psychological Assessment
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits:  4
Psychometric principles of test construction and issues of reliability and validity of contemporary
psychological tests will be covered. Students will learn accepted practices and critical issues in the
administration and interpretation of psychological tests.
Degree Requirements
F11
Prerequisites
Statistical Methods
PSYC 344 Movement Neuroscience with Lab
Term: Fall
Credits:  4, 1
The nervous system is remarkable in its ability to learn, plan and control movements. Using a
comparative approach from insects to humans, we will explore the neuroscience principles that
underlie rhythmic movement, sensory-motor reﬂexes, motor learning, and brain-machine
interfaces. In the complementary lab portion of the course we will use LEGO robots to learn
computational neuroscience techniques. Other lab projects will focus on biosignals, human motor
learning and kinematic analysis. Motor disorders such as stroke, amputation, Parkinson’s and other
diseases will be emphasized, as well as the corresponding approaches to neurorehabilitation.
Prerequisite: Psychology 150 or Biology 140/141
PSYC 345 Cognitive Neuroscience with Lab
Term: Fall
Credits:  4, 1
This course examines how structure and function of the brain give rise to cognitive processes. We
will explore the major cognitive systems, including object recognition, attention, memory,
language, emotion, social cognition, and executive function, and learn about the cutting-edge
technologies being employed to study these processes. In the lab portion of this course, students
will be exposed to an array of techniques used in cognitive neuroscience research. Lab activities
include a trip to LeBonheur Children’s Hospital to observe transcranial magnetic stimulation,
analysis of magneto encephalography data, and collection of electro encephalogram recordings.
Various methodological and analytical approaches will be explored ﬁrst-hand so that students are
familiarized with the broad spectrum of approaches used in modern neuroscience.
PSYC 350 Randomized Experimental Research
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 4
Students will conduct a laboratory or ﬁeld research experiment on human participants. Note: Must
be taken by the end of the junior year.
/uni00A0
Prerequisites
Statistical Methods
Research Methods and Statistics
PSYC 351 Program
Evaluation/Intervention/Participatory Action
Research
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 4
Students will gain experience in program evaluation, intervention research, or participatory action
research./uni00A0Note: Must be taken by the end of the junior year. Psychology 250 is strongly
recommended prior to enrolling in this course.
Prerequisites
Research Methods and Statistics
Statistical Methods
PSYC 352
Observational/Qualitative/Interpretive Research
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 4
Students will collect and/or analyze qualitative and/or observational research data. Note: Must be
taken by the end of the junior year.
Prerequisites
Research Methods and Statistics
Statistical Methods
PSYC 353 Survey Research
Term: Spring
Credits: 4
Students will collect and/or analyze survey research. Note: Must be taken by the end of the junior
year.
Prerequisites
Research Methods and Statistics
Statistical Methods
PSYC 399 Junior Seminar
Term: Spring
Credits: 1
A survey of contemporary research on selected topics, to be taken in preparation for honors
research. Open only to junior psychology majors.
PSYC 408 Advanced Topics in Psychology
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 2-4
An issue of current interest and importance in psychology will be explored in depth. Topics will be
announced each time the course is oﬀered.
PSYC 451 Research Practicum
Term: Fall
Credits: 1-4
-
PSYC 452 Research Practicum
Term: Spring
Credits: 1-4
-
PSYC 460 Internship in Psychology
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 4-8
Supervised experience in applying psychological knowledge and principles in a real-world setting
for junior and senior psychology majors. Students prepare a research paper or a literature review
on a topic related to the internship, work on a project with the oﬀ-campus supervisor, and keep a
journal. Only 4 internship credits may count towards the major. This is a pass/fail course.
Degree Requirements
F11
PSYC 485 Senior Seminar
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 4
Psychology majors are required to enroll in Senior Seminar during the senior year. Senior seminar
is intended to be a capstone experience in Psychology, requiring both oral and written work.
PSYC 495 Honors Tutorial
Term: Fall
Credits: 4
Maximum of 12 hours credit. For students accepted into the honors program of the department to
do independent research.
PSYC 496 Honors Tutorial
Term: Spring
Credits: 4
Maximum of 12 hours credit. For students accepted into the honors program of the department to
do independent research.
PSYC 522 Educational Psychology
Term: Fall
Credits: 2
This course focuses on theories and research on human learning and teaching, especially in
educational settings. This course will cover the current theories of teaching and learning
processes from a variety of perspectives, with emphasis placed on applications of research to
practice and policy. Cognitive processes, individual diﬀerences, strategies for instruction (including
with special needs students), motivation, critical thinking, and self-regulation of learning will be
stressed.
PSYC 529 Infant and Child Development
Term: Fall
Credits: 2
A study of developmental principles, focusing on research relevant to prenatal development,
infancy, and childhood. Theories of emotional, cognitive, and personality development will be
examined. Candidates will consider the implications of developmental research for social and
educational policy that aﬀects the welfare of children./uni00A0 Special emphasis will be given to
implications for work in urban elementary classrooms.
PSYC 530 Adolescent Psychology
Term: Fall
Credits: 2
Theories and research on adolescent and early adult development will be applied to educational
and social policy issues pertaining to identity work and the accomplishment of other
developmental tasks typically undertaken during the teens and twenties./uni00A0 Special emphasis is
given to implications for work in both middle and high school settings.
RELS 101 The Bible: Texts and contexts
Term: Fall
Credits: 4
The ﬁrst in a two-course sequence of selected topics/uni00A0that enables students to develop critical
knowledge of biblical texts and post-biblical traditions by helping them understand how these
works and their histories of reception/uni00A0inform interpretive contexts./uni00A0Students will acquire skills in
critical thinking, analysis, reading, and writing that will equip them to recognize the relevance of the
academic study of biblical texts and religion. Selected works from the biblical writings and aﬃliated
literature will be discussed within the framework of topics that will allow students to explore their
own and others’ operative assumptions about meaning and values.
Religious Studies 101-102 is a prerequisite for 200-level courses in the Religious Studies
Department. Humanities 101-102 can substitute for this prerequisite.
Degree Requirements
F1
RELS 102 The Bible: Texts and contexts
Term: Spring
Credits: 4
This is the second of a/uni00A0two-course sequence of selected topics enables students to develop
critical knowledge of biblical texts and post-biblical traditions by helping them understand how
these works and their histories of reception inform interpretive contexts. Students will acquire skills
in critical thinking, analysis, reading, and writing that will equip them to recognize the relevance of
the academic study of biblical texts and religion. Selected works from the biblical writings and
aﬃliated literature will be discussed within the framework of topics that will allow students to
explore their own and others’ operative assumptions about meaning and values.
Religious Studies 101-102 is a prerequisite for 200-level courses in the Religious Studies
Department. Humanities 101-102 can substitute for this prerequisite.
Degree Requirements
F1
F2
Prerequisites
The Bible: Texts and contexts
RELS 210 History of Christian Thought
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 4
The faith of the earliest New Testament communities will be examined, and developments in
biblical theology from the early church onward will be considered.
Degree Requirements
F1
Prerequisites
The Bible: Texts and contexts
RELS 211 Contemporary Theology
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits:  4
A survey of the major issues and ﬁgures in theology in the twentieth and twenty-ﬁrst centuries. The
course focuses on the special challenges to theology posed by the modern world.
Degree Requirements
F1
Prerequisites
The Bible: Texts and contexts
RELS 214 Early Christian Literature
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits:  4
A study of selections from the early Greek Fathers (e.g., Clement of Rome, Ignatius of Antioch, and
the Epistle of Barnabas) whose writings extend the biblical tradition into the second century CE
and mark a formative stage in the development of Christian creed and canon.
Degree Requirements
F1
Prerequisites
The Bible: Texts and contexts
RELS 220 Topics in Theology
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits:  4
An in-depth study of a particular problem, topic, or perspective in modern theology.
Degree Requirements
F1
Prerequisites
The Bible: Texts and contexts
RELS 231 Faith, Health and Justice
Credits: 4
Community-integrative course that examines the complex relationships between race and social
class, access to health care, religious faith, and health outcomes. Students will serve in placements
that allow them to study faith-based community agencies that aim to promote health equity and to
redress health disparities in Memphis. Through a combination of careful analysis of common
reading assignments, presentations of papers, reﬂection on experiences in the site placements,
and guided discussion, we aim to understand the root conditions that produce health disparities
and to evaluate proposals for promoting health equity./uni00A0
Degree Requirements
F1
RELS 232 Social Issues in Ethical and Religious
Perspective
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 4
This course examines selected social issues in theological, ethical and biblical perspective. Topics
include Holocaust, Religion and the Bible, Religion and Racism, and Religion and Sexuality.
Degree Requirements
F1
Prerequisites
The Bible: Texts and contexts
RELS 233 Pain, Suﬀering, and Death
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 4
A seminar that examines critical issues and problems of crisis experience involving pain, suﬀering,
and death using various disciplinary perspectives and pedagogical methods, including interviews
with health care professionals. Designed primarily for students considering health or human
service vocations (e.g., medical professions, counseling, social work, ministry), but also of interest
to others.
Degree Requirements
F1
F11
Prerequisites
The Bible: Texts and contexts
RELS 251 Religion in America
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits:  4
A historical analysis of American religion, examining the diversity of religions in America through
the study of selected beliefs, practices, and institutions.
Degree Requirements
F1
F3
Prerequisites
The Bible: Texts and contexts
RELS 253 Judaism
Term: Fall
Credits:  4
A survey of the history of the Jewish people and its formative experiences, the sources of Judaism
as a religious tradition, its distinctive ideas and values, and what it means to be a Jew today.
Degree Requirements
F1
Prerequisites
The Bible: Texts and contexts
RELS 255 Living Religions in Today's World
Term: Fall
Credits:  4
A survey of the major living religions in the modern world. The course will consider both the rise of
the classic traditions and the shape that their followers are giving them today. Religions to be
considered may include Hinduism, Buddhism, Chinese religion, Japanese religion, and Islam.
Degree Requirements
F1
F9
Prerequisites
The Bible: Texts and contexts
RELS 256 Methods and Theories of the Study of
Religion
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits:  4
An introduction to the phenomenological, sociological, anthropological, and psychological
approaches to the academic study of religions. This course reviews the methodologies and
theories of foundational thinkers in the modern study of religions. Students learn to apply the ideas
of these theorists in ﬁeld studies of local religious phenomena.
Degree Requirements
F1
Prerequisites
The Bible: Texts and contexts
RELS 258 Topics in the History of Religions
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits:  4
An exploration of a speciﬁc tradition or subject in the history of religions. Subjects include Islam,
African-American Religion, Women in American Religion, and Women in World Religions.
Degree Requirements
F1
Prerequisites
The Bible: Texts and contexts
RELS 259 Topics in the History of Christianity
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits:  4
This course will consider selected aspects in the Common Era history of communities of biblical
faith and practice. Topics include Catholicism and Reformation.
Degree Requirements
F1
Prerequisites
The Bible: Texts and contexts
RELS 260 Archaeology and the Biblical World
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits:  4
A detailed study of the major archaeological ﬁnds from the biblical period and their impact on
biblical interpretation. The course uses the material evidence of archaeology to reconstruct
ancient life, customs, and cultural inﬂuences in the biblical lands and then compares this portrait
with those presented in the biblical texts. Depending upon the expertise of the instructor, the
course may focus on lands and ﬁnds associated with the Hebrew Bible/Old Testament or those
associated with the New Testament. Familiarity with general biblical history is presumed.
Degree Requirements
F1
Prerequisites
The Bible: Texts and contexts
RELS 270 Introduction to the Hebrew Bible/Old
Testament
Term: Spring
Credits:  4
Permission of the instructor is required for students who wish to enroll in a 200-level course prior
to completing the RELS 101 and 102 sequence.
Degree Requirements
F1
Prerequisites
The Bible: Texts and contexts
RELS 271 Pentateuch
Term: Spring
Credits:  4
Permission of the instructor is required for students who wish to enroll in a 200-level course prior
to completing the RELS 101 and 102 sequence.
Degree Requirements
F1
Prerequisites
The Bible: Texts and contexts
RELS 272 Historical Literature
Term: Spring
Credits:  4
Permission of the instructor is required for students who wish to enroll in a 200-level course prior
to completing the RELS 101 and 102 sequence.
Degree Requirements
F1
Prerequisites
The Bible: Texts and contexts
RELS 273 Prophets
Term: Spring
Credits:  4
Permission of the instructor is required for students who wish to enroll in a 200-level course prior
to completing the RELS 101 and 102 sequence.
Degree Requirements
F1
Prerequisites
The Bible: Texts and contexts
RELS 274 Wisdom Literature/Psalms
Term: Spring
Credits:  4
Permission of the instructor is required for students who wish to enroll in a 200-level course prior
to completing the RELS 101 and 102 sequence.
Degree Requirements
F1
Prerequisites
The Bible: Texts and contexts
RELS 276 Selected Topics in Hebrew Bible/Old
Testament
Term: Fall
Credits:  4
Permission of the instructor is required for students who wish to enroll in a 200-level course prior
to completing the RELS 101 and 102 sequence.
Degree Requirements
F1
Prerequisites
The Bible: Texts and contexts
RELS 277 Selected Topics in Hebrew Bible/Old
Testament
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits:  4
Permission of the instructor is required for students who wish to enroll in a 200-level course prior
to completing the RELS 101 and 102 sequence.
Degree Requirements
F1
Prerequisites
The Bible: Texts and contexts
RELS 280 Introduction to the New Testament
Term: Spring
Credits:  4
Permission of the instructor is required for students who wish to enroll in a 200-level course prior
to completing the RELS 101 and 102 sequence.
Degree Requirements
F1
Prerequisites
The Bible: Texts and contexts
RELS 281 Synoptic Gospels
Term: Spring
Credits:  4
Permission of the instructor is required for students who wish to enroll in a 200-level course prior
to completing the RELS 101 and 102 sequence.
Degree Requirements
F1
Prerequisites
The Bible: Texts and contexts
RELS 282 Gospel of John
Term: Spring
Credits:  4
Permission of the instructor is required for students who wish to enroll in a 200-level course prior
to completing the RELS 101 and 102 sequence.
Degree Requirements
F1
Prerequisites
The Bible: Texts and contexts
RELS 283 Paul's Letters
Term: Spring
Credits:  4
Permission of the instructor is required for students who wish to enroll in a 200-level course prior
to completing the RELS 101 and 102 sequence.
Degree Requirements
F1
Prerequisites
The Bible: Texts and contexts
RELS 285 Selected Topics in the New Testament
Term: Fall
Credits:  4
Permission of the instructor is required for students who wish to enroll in a 200-level course prior
to completing the RELS 101 and 102 sequence.
Degree Requirements
F1
Prerequisites
The Bible: Texts and contexts
RELS 286 Selected Topics in the New Testament
Term: Spring
Credits:  4
Permission of the instructor is required for students who wish to enroll in a 200-level course prior
to completing the RELS 101 and 102 sequence.
Degree Requirements
F1
Prerequisites
The Bible: Texts and contexts
RELS 300 Selected Topics in Religious Studies
Term: Fall
Credits:  4
Courses in Religious Studies at the 300 level and above are not part of the Life curriculum and
cannot count for Life or F1 credit.
RELS 301 Selected Topics in Religious Studies
Term: Spring
Credits:  4
Courses in Religious Studies at the 300 level and above are not part of the Life curriculum and
cannot count for Life or F1 credit.
RELS 399 Junior Honors Tutorial
Term: Spring
Credits:  1
Open to junior majors by permission of the instructor only.
RELS 451 Research in Religious Studies
Term: Fall
Credits:  1-4
This course involves advanced students in Religious Studies in collaborative work with faculty on
original research projects.
RELS 452 Research in Religious Studies
Term: Spring
Credits:  1-4
This course involves advanced students in Religious Studies in collaborative work with faculty on
original research projects.
RELS 460 Health Equity Internships
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 1-4
A supervised learning experience in the community outside the College (e.g., faith-based
community health providers, churches, hospitals, or social agencies). In collaboration with
Methodist Healthcare, the Nancy Hughes Morgan Program in Hospital Chaplaincy oﬀers a special
internship each spring semester designed for students considering health or human service
vocations (e.g., medical professions, counseling, social work, and ministry). In collaboration with
several faith-based community health and social service providers, the department oﬀers health
equity internship placements that integrate academic work on health disparities with professional
experience in agencies working to promote health equity in Memphis. The health equity
internships focus on the intersection of faith commitments, social justice concerns, and health
outcomes for economically and socially marginalized groups in Memphis.
RELS 461 Internships
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 1-4
All internships that do not ﬁt the description found under Religious Studies 460 (Health Equity
Internships.)
RELS 485 Senior Seminar: Senior Paper
Term: Spring
Credits: 4
The seminar culminates in the senior paper, a major research project reﬂecting a semester-long
engagement with a signiﬁcant topic for Religious Studies.
RELS 495 Honors Tutorial
Term: Fall
Credits: 4
Requires permission of the department.
RELS 496 Honors Tutorial
Term: Spring
Credits: 4
Requires permission of the department.
RUSS 101 Elementary Russian
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 4
Elementary grammar, reading, and conversation, supplemented by materials on Russian culture.
RUSS 102 Elementary Russian
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 4
Elementary grammar, reading, and conversation, supplemented by materials on Russian culture.
RUSS 201 Intermediate Russian
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 4
Intermediate grammar and continued training in conversation and composition, supplemented by
materials on/uni00A0contemporary developments in russian society./uni00A0 Reading of Russian texts of graded
diﬃculty, intermediate writing.
Degree Requirements
F10
Prerequisites
Elementary Russian
RUSS 202 Intermediate Russian
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 4
Intermediate grammar and continued training in conversation and composition, supplemented by
materials on contemporary developments in Russian society.
Reading of Russian texts of graded diﬃculty, intermediate writing.
Prerequisites
Intermediate Russian
RUSS 205 The Russian Religious Mind
Term: Fall
Credits: 4
This course examines the distinct world-consciousness of Russian religious thought, with its
emphases on the themes of God, good and evil, the search for divine justice on Earth, the material
world as sanctiﬁed, and the moral content of spiritualized beauty./uni00A0 Reading materials will be taken
from the religio-philosophical writings of distinguished thinkers, Orthodox presentations of major
points of dogmatic theology, and monastic wisdom past and present./uni00A0 All works are read in English
translation.
Degree Requirements
F1
F4
RUSS 209 Russian in Russia
Term: Summer
Credits: 4
A 3-4 week guided encounter with the language and culture aimed at solidifying vocabulary and
grammar previously acquired. A
signiﬁcant cultural component is part of the course. Takes place in May-June.
Degree Requirements
F10
F11
RUSS 212 Prophets, Princesses,
Revolutionaries: 19th Century Russian Voices
Term: Fall
Credits: 4
Reading of representative works by major Russian writers of the nineteenth century (including
Pushkin, Pavlova, Gogol, Goncharov, Soboleva, Turgenev, Tolstoy, and Dostoevsky). The literary
works include Eugene Onegin, supernatural tales by Gogol, Oblomov, The Cossacks, Notes from
Underground, and Fathers and Children. These works will be studied for their individual merit,
what they illuminate about nineteenth-century Russian society, and their contribution to the rise of
the Russian novel. All works are read in translation.
Degree Requirements
F2i
F4
RUSS 215 Giants of Russia's Silver Age:
Soloviev, Blok, and Rachmanioﬀ
Term: Spring
Credits: 4
Study of the aesthetic, thematic, and personal connections among three of Russia’s towering
ﬁgures: Vladimir Soloviev, Alexander Blok, and Sergei Rachmaninoﬀ . The course will examine in
depth the creative works of the philosopher-poet Soloviev, the poet-dramatist Blok, and the
composer-pianist Rachmaninoﬀ (for whom poetry was second only to music). Master themes and
global concepts linking
the three creative artists include the yearning for harmony; exploration of Russian Orthodox
religiosity; elevation of the –eternal feminineî of Sophia (the body of God); and connection
between beauty and goodness. Representative philosophical, poetic, and musical works,
respectively, of the three artists will be examined. Oﬀered in alternate years.
Degree Requirements
F5
F9
RUSS 255 Catherine the Great and the
Enlightenment: The Italian-Russian Connection
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 4
In this course students investigate the Italian-Russian connections in three major areas of cultural
production during the reign of
Catherine the Great: music, literature, and architecture. Creative thinkers whose works will be
studied include Bortnyansky, Paisiello,
Casanova, Beccaria, Rastrelli, and Quarenghi. Students will learn features of the European and
Russian Enlightenments, study the
intricacies of Russian court culture, and explore the institution of patronage. The course aims to
develop an understanding of crosscultural
fertilization and some major diﬀerences between Mediterranean and Slavic cultures. It is
complemented by an optional, though
highly recommended, three-week study trip to Italy and Russia (See Russian 256). Oﬀered in
alternate years.
Degree Requirements
F5
F9
RUSS 256 Catherine the Great and the Italian-
Russian Connection
Term: Summer
Credits: 0-1
This Maymester program examines the musical, literary, and architectural connections between
Italy and Russia during the reign of
Catherine the Great. It takes participants to three cities: Rome, Milan, and St. Petersburg. In Rome
students will attend lectures at
LUMSA (university adjacent to the Vatican), attend a musical performance at the Teatro dell’Opera,
visit places associated with
Giacomo Casanova, and investigate architectural monuments by Italian architects whom Catherine
attracted to Russia. In Milan
participants will attend an opera at the Teatro all Scala and visit sites associated with Cesare
Beccaria. In St. Petersburg students will
attend performances in the Great Hall of the St. Petersburg Philharmonic and the Mariinsky
Theatre, and will study major architectural
ensembles. Takes place in May and June.
Degree Requirements
F11
RUSS 285 Putin's Russia and the Media
Credits: 4
This course explores a wide array of important media, print, and ﬁlmic sources that are
underrepresented in Western narratives about contemporary Russia and its president, Vladimir
Putin./uni00A0 Students utilize the study of these materials in order to better understand Russia today, and
speciﬁcally to gain an awareness of how the media can manipulate public opinion. While calling
attention to media techniques of bias, the course serves as an entry to contemporary Russian
culture, providing observers of Russia with a fuller understanding of her geopolitical perspectives
and vision for the twenty-ﬁrst century.
Degree Requirements
F9
RUSS 300 Dostoevsky
Term: Spring
Credits: 4
This course explores selected works by Dostoevsky in the context of the rise of the Russian novel.
The course will examine in depth
several short works by the writer, as well as the novels The Idiot and The Brothers Karamazov.
Concentration is on the major literary,
philosophical, and religious issues Dostoevsky raises in his prose, as well as how these issues
better enable us to understand the Russian
mind. All works are read in translation. Oﬀered in alternate years./uni00A0 Scheduled for Fall 2017.
Degree Requirements
F4
F9
RUSS 301 Advanced Russian
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 4
Advanced grammar, with greater emphasis on the reﬁnement of conversation and composition
skills. Discussion of topics related to
contemporary life in Russia.
Prerequisites
Intermediate Russian
RUSS 302 Advanced Russian
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 4
Advanced grammar, with greater emphasis on the reﬁnement of conversation and composition
skills. Discussion of topics related to
contemporary life in Russia.
Prerequisites
Intermediate Russian
RUSS 309 Russian in Russia
Term: Summer
Credits: 4
A 3-4 week guided encounter with the language and culture aimed at solidifying vocabulary and
grammar previously acquired. A
signiﬁcant cultural component is part of the course. Takes place in May-June.
Degree Requirements
F11
RUSS 400 Russian Film: Film Theory
Term: Spring
Credits: 4
Introduction to the ideological and aesthetic forces that have shaped the development of
Soviet/Russian ﬁlm, with particular attention to
various ﬁlm theories. Films of major directors, such as Eisenstein, Pudovkin, Tarkovsky,
Kulidzhanov, and Sokurov will be studied. All
ﬁlms are subtitled; course is taught in English. (Cross-listed with English 382.) Oﬀered in alternate
years.
Degree Requirements
F5
RUSS 410 Analytical Reading
Term: Fall
Credits: 4
This course aims to teach students the strategies of understanding texts of high literary quality by
analyzing elements of given texts in
their complexity. While focusing mainly on psycho-poetic aspects of reading activity, the course
also introduces formal approaches to
text analysis, such as identifying the stylistic devices and expressive means employed by the
authors.
RUSS 486 Senior Seminar
Term: Spring
Credits: 4
Students will be assigned individual research topics associated with the essential concept of the
Russian Idea, give weekly progress
reports, which will involve analytical discussion, and present their results orally and in writing at the
end of the course. Special attention
will be given to assigned readings from the Russian press and from Russian literature.
RUSS 495 Honors Tutorial
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 4-8
/uni00A0/uni00A0
RUSS 496 Honors Tutorial
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 4-8
/uni00A0/uni00A0
SPAN 101 Elementary Spanish
Term: Fall
Credits: 4
Pronunciation, fundamentals of grammar, composition, and reading of texts of graded diﬃculty.
SPAN 102 Elementary Spanish
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 4
Pronunciation, fundamentals of grammar, composition, and reading of texts of graded diﬃculty.
SPAN 201 Intermediate Spanish
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits:  4
Review and continuation of grammar; composition; training for oral proﬁciency. Reading of modern
literary works of Spain and Spanish
America.
Degree Requirements
F10
Prerequisites
Elementary Spanish
SPAN 202 Intermediate Spanish
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits:  4
Review and continuation of grammar; composition; training for oral proﬁciency. Reading of modern
literary works of Spain and Spanish
America.
Prerequisites
Intermediate Spanish
SPAN 205 Spanish in Spain
Term: Summer
Credits:  4
An intensive study of Spanish at Estudio Sampere, Universidad de Deusto, or other host
institutions.
Degree Requirements
F10
F11
Prerequisites
Elementary Spanish
SPAN 209 Spanish in Latin America
Term: Maymester
Credits: 4
An intensive study of Spanish at Estudio Sampere’s Cuenca, Ecuador location or other host
institutions. This course satisﬁes the
proﬁciency requirement in foreign languages, as well as the foundation requirement for
experiential learning beyond the Rhodes campus.
Degree Requirements
F10
F11
Prerequisites
Elementary Spanish
SPAN 301 Advanced Spanish Language and
Culture
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 4
A study of rich, complex aspects of the Spanish language with emphasis on the four skills of
speaking, understanding spoken Spanish, writing, and reading. Special attention is given to the
idiomatic character of the language. Each section focuses on a speciﬁc ﬁeld of study, social and
cultural context, and/or current event. Aural comprehension and oral production are stressed in
301; composition is stressed in 302, a writing intensive course. These courses need not be taken
in sequence. While students may take both courses, either one will satisfy a minor/major
requirement and act as a prerequisite for more advanced courses. Students who have previously
taken Spanish 305 or Spanish 309 have in most cases already gained the competencies stressed
in 301 and should enroll in 302 if they need a course at this level. Spanish 301 and 302 are
intended to be taken early in the minor or major; for this reason Senior minors and majors may not
enroll in these courses without the instructor's permission.
/uni00A0
Prerequisites
Intermediate Spanish
SPAN 302 Advanced Spanish Language and
Culture
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 4
A study of rich, complex aspects of the Spanish language with emphasis on the four skills of
speaking, understanding spoken Spanish, writing, and reading. Special attention is given to the
idiomatic character of the language. Each section focuses on a speciﬁc ﬁeld of study, social and
cultural context, and/or current events. Aural comprehension and oral production are stressed in
301; composition is stressed in 302, a writing intensive course. These courses need not be taken
in sequence. While students may take both courses, either one will satisfy a minor/major
requirement and act as a prerequisite for more advanced courses. Students who have previously
taken Spanish 305 or Spanish 309 have in most cases already gained the competencies stressed
in 301 and should enroll in 302 if they need a course at this level. Spanish 301 and 302 are
intended to be taken early in the minor or major; for this reason Senior minors and majors may not
enroll in these courses without the instructor's permission.
/uni00A0
Degree Requirements
F2
Teaching/Learning Elective
Prerequisites
Intermediate Spanish
SPAN 303 Survey of Peninsular Spanish
Literature
Term: Spring
Credits: 4
Reading and analysis of selected works of Peninsular Spanish literature from a range of genres.
Beginning with a brief introduction to
Spain’s multicultural past, the course will provide students with a panoramic survey of the major
periods in Spanish cultural and literary
history from the 11th through the 21st centuries. Emphasis given to the fundamentals of literary
research and analysis. Ideally, this
course should be taken early in the minor/major, shortly after completing 301 or 302.
Prerequisite: Spanish 301 or 302 or 305 or 309
Degree Requirements
F4
SPAN 305 Spanish in Spain
Term: Maymester
Credits: 4
A study of the most diﬃcult aspects of the Spanish language with emphasis on the four skills of
speaking, understanding, writing, and
reading. Special attention is given to the idiomatic character of the language. The course is oﬀered
in conjunction with Estudio Sampere
or Universidad de Deusto.
Degree Requirements
F11
Prerequisites
Intermediate Spanish
SPAN 306 Survey of Spanish American
Literature and Cultures
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 4
A panoramic overview of literary and cultural movements from the pre-Columbian era to the
present. Emphasis given to the
fundamentals of literary research and analysis. Ideally, this course should be taken early in the
minor/major, shortly after completing 301
or 302.
/uni00A0
Prerequisite: Spanish 301 or 302 or 305 or 309
Degree Requirements
F4
SPAN 307 Oral Proﬁciency Practicum
Term: Spring
Credits: 1
Discussion of contemporary issues in Spanish-speaking communities with emphasis on improving
oral proﬁciency.
Prerequisite: Spanish 301, or 302, or 305, or 309
SPAN 309 Spanish in Latin America
Term: Maymester
Credits: 4
A study of the most diﬃcult aspects of the Spanish language with emphasis on the four skills of
speaking, understanding, writing, and
reading. Special attention is given to the idiomatic character of the language. Text materials deal
with civilization and current events. The
course is oﬀered in conjunction with Estudio Sampere (Cuenca, Ecuador) or IES (Buenos Aires,
Argentina).
Degree Requirements
F11
Prerequisites
Intermediate Spanish
SPAN 310 Spanish in the U.S.
Term: Fall
Credits: 4
A course in which students research a range of forms in which the Spanish language has been
used to express essential features of experience in the territory that now makes up the United
States of America.
/uni00A0
Prerequisite: Spanish 301, or 302, or 305, or 309
SPAN 311 Lit, Cultural Humility, and Lang in
Latinx Health Care
Credits: 4
This course is designed for students planning to work in the health care ﬁeld and who want to
acquire more skills in medical Spanish. We will develop new critical perspectives on health care for
Latin Americans and Hispanics in the US through the study of literature, language, and culture.
Speciﬁcally, we will develop medical language skills and cultural competency for health care
situations. Outside class students will participate as an informal intern and perform a variety of
tasks with the Shelby County Health Equity Collective. The work will focus on Latinx patients and
include shadowing an interpreter, ﬁling, other tasks as relevant, etc. (for nursing students, also
taking vitals). Students will also attend seminars at local non-proﬁts. We will learn about cultural
humility, the legalities of medical records, issues of conﬁdentiality, informed consent, and patient
privacy/rights. We will also gather information about other programs geared toward the Latin
American and Latinx community. Finally, we will learn about the WIC (Women, Infant, Children)
program, communicable diseases, cultural, and environmental health issues for Latinx in the Mid-
South.
Degree Requirements
F9
SPAN 312 Sport and Games in the
Hispanophone World
Term: Spring
Credits: 4
Against a backdrop of theoretical readings, this course examines a range of representations of
sport and games in literature, journalism, performance, and ﬁlm. Selections from Latin America,
Spain, and the US highlight the ethics, politics, social functions, and language of sport and games.
/uni00A0
Prerequisites
Advanced Spanish Language and Culture
Advanced Spanish Language and Culture
Spanish in Spain
Spanish in Latin America
SPAN 315 New Theories and Praxis in Latin
America and the Latinx World
Term: Spring
Credits: 4
In recent decades, the region has undergone a process of liberation from assumed principles of
knowledge and understanding of how the world is and should be. We have seen a veritable
explosion in the production of theories and novel cultural practices in Latin America and the Latinx
world. As each school of thought and praxis emerges, it questions inherited views of the world
postulated by its predecessors, and remakes textual and social practices. Through discussions of
Latin American and Latinx texts and visual-cultural materials, and engagement with new cultural
practices, this course examines multiple ways writers, artists, activists, and critics reimagine the
region and propose novel ways to address ongoing cultural and intellectual challenges towards
opening up horizons and visions neglected in mainstream culture.
Prerequisite: Spanish 301,302/uni00A0or permission of instructor.
Degree Requirements
F9
F11
SPAN 317 Colonization and Decolonization
Term: Fall
Credits: 4
Our world is the result of more than 500 years of Western colonial expansion and imperial designs,
and was structured on the basis of unequal power relations between the North (including the
North within the South) and the South (including the South within the North). The racial, class,
gender, sexual, religious, pedagogical, linguistic, aesthetic, ecological and epistemological power
hierarchies that organize knowledge on the basis of epistemic privilege. Within this context, non-
Western traditions of thought are inferiorized and subalternized. This course invites students to
explore questions like who is producing knowledge? What institutions and disciplines legitimize it?
What is knowledge for and who beneﬁts from it? How is our social existence colonized and how to
think about decolonization of being? Readings and practices during the semester will engages us
to reﬂect about basic assumptions engrained in the idea of modernity, progress, and development.
We will examine notions like the Renaissance, the Enlightenment, Positivism, developmentalism,
and related ideas connected to imperial projects in the 20th and 21st centuries. Through the study
of literature, drama, ﬁlm, and various radical counter-discursive, indigenous and hybrid artistic
practices in Latin America and the Latinx world, the course fosters thinking and living in community
with non-eurocentric social and human values. With opened horizons and visions, we will engage
in learning with, and from, the Latinx/a/o community in Memphis through engaged learning
projects./uni00A0
/uni00A0
Degree Requirements
F9
F11
SPAN 318 Ecocritical Perspectives in Latin
America and the Latinx World
Term: Spring
Credits: 4
The contemporary ecological crisis urges us to confront the condition of the world around us, to
examine the way by which we came to understand the relationship between man and physical
space, and to scrutinize the ecological implications of the metaphors that organize it into discrete
categories of “culture” and “environment.” The study of texts, art, and activism from marginalized
environmental perspectives (indigenous, Afro-Latinx/e/Latin American, women, LGBTQI+
communities) evidences various strands of environmental thought and critique—recognizable
today as extractivism, feminisms from the South, eco-feminism, Amerindian ontologies, among
others—present in diﬀerent forms since the region was envisioned as an Edenic “New World” until
today. Through the study of literature, drama, ﬁlm, and various radical counter-discursive,
indigenous and hybrid artistic practices in Latin America and the Latinx world, the course fosters
thinking and living in community with non-Eurocentric social and human values. These vital corpus
from Latin America and the Latinx world will oﬀer the opportunity to explore and reﬂect about
multiple perspectives on environmental justice, law and ecology, and environmental
action/engagement. With opened horizons and visions, we will engage in learning with, and from,
the Latinx/a/o community in Memphis through engaged learning projects.
/uni00A0
Degree Requirements
F9
Prerequisites
Advanced Spanish Language and Culture
Advanced Spanish Language and Culture
SPAN 320 Spanish American Drama
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits:  4
A study of the works of Spanish American dramatists from the colonial era to the present.
Prerequisite: Spanish 301, or 302, or 305, or 309
Degree Requirements
F5
SPAN 323 Space and Place, City and Nature in
the Hispanic Imagination
Term: Spring
Credits:  4
This course focuses on how debates about space and place, cities, and nature serve as forums of
contemplation and contestation of the political, historical, geographic, and literary foundations of
Hispanic imaginaries. Authors have found in natural and urban landscapes a suggestive literary
locus of unrest and ambiguity to problematize and disrupt the physical, metaphysical, and
ontological symbolic value ascribed to them by predecessors. Writers adopt these changing
representations in order to point to paradoxes and contradictions in notions of the colonial, the
imperial, the national, the local, and the global. We will dedicate part of the course to
contemporary reconsiderations of the relationship between urban life and the natural world taking
place in Latin America, and conduct engaged research on civic engagement through literature, art,
and philosophy, as expressed in Cartonera publishing in Memphis.
Degree Requirements
F9
F11
SPAN 325 Minority Voices in Contemporary
Spain: Old Baggage, New Arrivals
Term: Spring
Credits: 4
Since the beginning of its transition to democracy, Spanish society has undergone cultural,
political, and social transformations from which historically marginalized voices have continued to
emerge and vie for recognition, acceptance, and authentic representation. This course introduces
students to the developing situation of minority groups as perceivers and the perceived within
contemporary Spanish society. More speciﬁcally, through a literary, journalistic, and cinematic lens,
the course prioritizes, not only the historical and contemporary factors that have shaped behaviors,
perceptions, and attitudes toward minorities, but also the lens through which minority groups see
and perceive their own experiences. Within the context of Spain, we will explore experiences
based on linguistic and cultural diversity within Catalonia, Basque Country, Galicia, Andalusia as
well as experiences and representations of other minority and marginalized groups, such as
African, Latin American, Romani, and LGTBQIA communities living in Spain.
Degree Requirements
F9
SPAN 328 The Black Experience in the Spanish
Speaking World
Term: Spring
Credits: 4
Through a conscientious review of the literary and cultural productions of Afro-descendant writers
in the Spanish-speaking world, this course provides students with the fundamental knowledge
and/uni00A0principles required to recognize and appreciate manifestations of Black expression in the
context of resistance and agency. Students are presented a historical and cultural framework with
which/uni00A0to critically analyze, interpret, and engage enduring questions and ideas concerning the
racialized lived experiences of Black individuals in the literature, cinema, and popular culture
produced by/uni00A0Spanish speakers of African descent in Latin America, Equatorial Guinea, Spain, and
the United States.
Prerequisite: SPAN 301 or SPAN 302
SPAN 330 Spanish American Poetry
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 4
A study of the major movements and representatives of Spanish American Poetry, from pre-
Columbian era to the present.
Prerequisite: Spanish 301, or 302, or 305, or 309
SPAN 340 Colonial and Global Visions in
Spanish American Literature
Term: Fall
Credits: 4
The course focuses on the visual, literary, and cartographic production of the pre-Hispanic world
and Spanish American Colonial culture
and the re-imagination of the period in the last century. Some topics include: Inca and
Mesoamerican maps, codices, and graﬃti;
contrasting narratives of conquest; the earliest elaboration of global worlds; the debate on the
nature of Amerindians and early notions of
Human Rights; imperial discourses; gender and race; and satire and humor. Authors include Pre-
Hispanic poets and mapmakers,
Cristobal Colón, Hernán Cortés, Fernando de Ixtlilxóchitl, Bartolomé de las Casas, Álvar Núñez
Cabeza de Vaca, Inca Garcilaso de la
Vega, Sor Juana Inés de la Cruz, Carlos Sigüenza y Góngora, and Juan de Valle Caviedes among
others. Movies and contemporary texts
on the Colonial past will serve to the study of the modern reception of this cultural production.
Prerequisite: Spanish 301 or 302 or 305 or 309
Degree Requirements
F9
SPAN 350 Fiction by Spanish Women Writers
Term: Fall
Credits: 4
This course aims to raise and examine issues associated with women’s literary expression through
the study of works by some of the
most prominent Spanish writers of the last two centuries. Questions of marginality (as related to
gender, language and culture), female
sexuality and creativity, and the challenge of writing under the watchful eye of state censors will be
addressed.
Prerequisite: Spanish 301 or 302 or 305 or 309
SPAN 355 Medieval and Early Modern Women
Writers
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits:  4
The primary focus is on women writers from the Middle Ages to the end of the seventeenth
century. It explores how women writers inthe Hispanic world, such as Florencia Pinar, Teresa de
Jesús, Catalina de Erauso, Juana Inés de la Cruz, and María de Zayas, negotiate gender
construction and its impositions through literature. For these women, literary production becomes
the site of gender-related political resistance, and in some instances, gender redeﬁnition or what
could be called a Hispanic proto-feminism. The course deals with a variety of literary genres, such
as poetry, short novel, theatre, autobiography, and letters, as well as some oral tradition.
Prerequisite: Spanish 301 or 302 or 305 or 309
SPAN 360 Genders in Spanish American
Literature
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits:  4
A study of gender in works by women and men writers. Topical units composed of texts
representing various genres, regions, and periods.
Prerequisite: Spanish 301 or 302 or 305 or 309
SPAN 365 Special Topics in Spanish
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits:  4
Emphasis on a particular genre or the literature of a speciﬁc Hispanic nation.
Prerequisite; Spanish 301, or 302, or 305, or 309
SPAN 370 Contemporary Southern Cone
Literature
Term: Fall
Credits:  4
A study of contemporary Southern Cone literature including short stories, novels, theatre, poetry,
and essays.
Prerequisite: Spanish 301 or 302 or 305 or 309
SPAN 375 Contemporary Central American
Literatures
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits:  4
A study of major Central American ﬁction, poetry, drama, and essays. Particular attention to works
published after 1950, although some
selections from before 1950 may be included to develop understandings of cultural, literary, and
socio-historical contexts.
Prerequisite: Spanish 301 or 302 or 305 or 309
SPAN 395 Medieval Iberian Cultures
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits:  4
The medieval Iberian Peninsula was famously home to a variety of cultural communities, deﬁned
not only by their religion (Muslims, Christians, or Jews) but also by their place of origin, their
relationship to majority culture, or their social origin and occupation. This course examines
medieval Iberian cultural communities and their contentious and collaborative relationships to one
another, primarily through the lens of their written cultural production (such as literature or
historiography), but also taking into account other cultural manifestations such as art, music,
textiles, etc. In a given semester, the class may focus on one speciﬁc community, issue, or genre.
Prerequisite: Any of the following: 301, 302, 305, 309
SPAN 399 Juniors Honor Tutorial
Term:/uni00A0Spring
Credits:/uni00A01
Permission of instructor required.
/uni00A0
SPAN 404 Contemporary Mexican Literature
and Visual Arts
Term: Spring
Credits: 4
From the Visión de los vencidos to Alfonso Reyes’s Visión de Anáhuac, Mexican literature has
shared its space and maintains a constant dialogue/friction with other types of cultural
representation. Focusing on the interplay of four diﬀerent types of art (photography, painting,
literature and ﬁlm) we will examine in this course ﬁve key moments for Mexican literary production
and visual arts, from the Mexican Revolution to the present. Writers such as Rulfo and Poniatowska,
muralistas like Orozco and Rivera, photographers such as Ituribide and López, and ﬁlmmakers from
Buñuel to Cuarón will help us in examining and reframing the most common issues of Mexican
cultural studies, such as cultural identity and the remaking of the indigenous past; cultural
hybridization; the creation of the Modern Mexican nation; race, class, sexuality and gender
relations; and immigration/border issues with the US.
Prerequisites: Spanish 301, 301, 305, 309 or permission of the instructor
Degree Requirements
F5
F9
SPAN 405 The Literature of Mexico after 1911
Term: Fall
Credits: 4
A study of major Mexican writers of the 20th and 21st centuries. May include works by Juan Rulfo,
Rosario Castellanos, Elena Garro,
Carlos Fuentes, Octavio Paz, and Carlos Monsiváis.
Spanish 301 or 302 or 305 or 309
SPAN 406 The Contemporary Novel of Spanish
America
Term: Fall
Credits:  4
A study of major novelists since 1950. May include works by Alejo Carpentier, Roberto Bolaño,
Mario Vargas Llosa, Cristina Peri
Rossi, and Gabriel García Márquez.
Prerequisite: Spanish 301 or 302 or 305 or 309
SPAN 408 The Spanish American Short Story
Term: Fall
Credits:  4
A study of Spanish American short story writers. May include works by Jorge Luis Borges, Augusto
Monterroso, Luisa Valenzuela, Julio
Cortázar, and Horacio Quiroga.
Prerequisite:Spanish 301 or 302 or 305 or 309
SPAN 410 Modern Spain: From Enlightenment
to Realism
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits:  4
This course aims to give the student an overview of the literary development of Spain during the
18th and 19th centuries. Emphasis is
given to the main cultural and literary movements: Enlightenment, Romanticism and Realism.
Prerequisite: Spanish 301 or 302 or 305 or 309
SPAN 411 The Fantastic in Spain: Pushing the
Limits
Term: Fall
Credits: 4
Although sometimes dismissed as mere escapism, fantastic and gothic narrative can also be read
as an exposure of what lies beneath the surface, revealing social, cultural and artistic anxieties.
This course will introduce students to the study of fantastic and gothic elements in Peninsular
Spanish literature of the 19th century through the present day. An introduction to theories and
critical assessments of the fantastic and gothic in literary texts will guide our readings and inform
our analyses of how fantasy can challenge and subvert dominant notions of what is natural, real or
normal, thereby pushing the limits of artistic and social conventions and opening new spaces for
the expression of imagination and experience.
Prerequisites: SPAN 301 or 302 or 305 or 309
SPAN 412 Twentieth-Century Spain: The Artist
and Society
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 4
This course aims to study some of the most important authors and literary works of what has been
called Spain’s “Silver Age” at the beginning of the 20th century. Two key moments in Spanish
history serve as bookends for the readings: the “Disaster” of 1898 and the Spanish Civil War of
1936-1939. We’ll begin the course by studying representative works of authors included in the so-
called Generation of 98, the ﬁrst of the important literary and artistic generations of the 20th
century. When we read the poetry of the Generation of 27, we’ll see the tension between their
recognition of the importance of their immediate predecessors and new tendencies toward more
avant-garde aesthetic concerns and poetic practices. The connections between literary art,
Cubism and Surrealism will also be explored. Since the course is cross-listed with the Gender and
Sexuality Studies program, we’ll approach literary works through the lens of gender analysis,
focusing speciﬁcally on constructions of masculinity, femininity and queer identities, the connection
between gender and genre, and the voicing of diﬀerence. The course’s readings include many
works and authors recognized within the canon of great works in Spanish literature, but we will
also read many works by authors traditionally excluded from the canon, with the aim of exploring
the possible reasons and motives for their exclusion.
Prerequisite: Any of the following Spanish 301, 302, 305, 309
SPAN 413 Twentieth-Century Spain:Ghosts of
the Spanish Civil War
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 4
This course aims to study Spanish literature published during the years following the Spanish Civil
War of 1936-9 to the present, with a particular focus on identity viewed through the lens of gender
studies. In reading works produced during the Franco dictatorship, we’ll see the impact of state
censorship on artistic production, and we’ll trace the eﬀects of the regime’s promotion of
traditional conﬁgurations and expressions of gender in selected literary texts and ﬁlms. In works
published following Franco’s death in 1975, we will explore how art and literature provide
opportunities for a certain coming to grips with the historical memory of four decades of
dictatorship. All readings, discussions and writing assignments will be in Spanish.
Prerequisite: Any of the following Spanish 301, 302, 305, 309
SPAN 414 Cinema of Spain
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 4
This course oﬀers an in-depth look at some of the main ﬁlms, genres, directors, and styles of
Spanish cinema in the speciﬁc context of
Spanish culture and history, as well as of wider European and world ﬁlm history. In addition, it
introduces students to key terms and
concepts of cinematic analysis and ﬁlm theory. In a given semester, the course may focus on a
speciﬁc ﬁlmmaker, genre, or period.
Prerequisite: Spanish 301 or 302 or 305 or 309
Degree Requirements
F5
SPAN 421 The Golden Age in Spain
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 4
This course focuses on 16th- and 17th-century poetry and prose. May include works by Quevedo,
Góngora, Garcilaso de la Vega, Cervantes, Zayas, Teresa de Jesús, and Juan de la Cruz.
Prerequisite: Spanish 301 or 302 or 305 or 309
SPAN 423 Hispanic Golden Age Theatre
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 4
This course will study major playwrights of the Golden Age such as Lope de Vega, Pedro Calderón
de la Barca, Tirso de Molina, María de Zayas, Juana Inés de la Cruz and Juan Ruiz de Alarcón,
amongmany others. Written and staged between the end of the 16th and the end of the 17th
centuries—a period known for its literary and artistic activity both in the New World and Spain—
these plays are important because of their themes, audience and treatment of critical issues such
as gender deﬁnition, national identity, and conﬂicts of class.
Prerequisite: Spanish 301 or 302 or 305 or 309
SPAN 424 Exploring Don Quijote
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 4
This course aims to familiarize students with Miguel de Cervantes’s masterpiece, considered one
of the classics of 17th-century Spanish
literature. Questions of readership, authorship, and narrative, among others, will be examined.
Prerequisite: Spanish 301 or 302 or 305 or 309
SPAN 426 Imperial Discourses of the Hispanic
World
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 4
The sixteenth and seventeenth centuries witnessed the rise of one of the earliest global powers in
the Western Modern world: the Spanish
Empire. This course examines the notion of Spanish Empire as it is expressed in the literary
production of the times, and how this aﬀects
its consideration in the following centuries and up until today. Challenging the metageographies
that inform the study of the ﬁeld, we
will adopt a transatlantic framework to promote comparisons, and explore interactions, between
texts that are conventionally labeled as
separate creations of Latin American vs. Peninsular literature. Using our framework, we seek to
fashion a more complex panorama and
achieve a deeper understanding of the discourses behind this early global phenomenon.
Readings include Mesoamerican Poetry and the
descriptions of the earliest Conquistadors; histories of the Incas and Moriscos in the Peninsula;
contemporary short stories and their
ﬁlmic representations among others. Through the study of these works we will inquire into
concepts like nation, race, identity, empire
and their role on the elaboration of the Hispanic imaginary.
Prerequisite: Spanish 301 or 302 or 305 or 309
Degree Requirements
F9
SPAN 486 Senior Seminar
Term: Spring
Credits: 4
An overview of major topics of Hispanic literatures and cultures. Emphasis is given to the process
of conceiving and developing a
substantial library of research, and to the elaboration of a major research paper and a formal
academic presentation based upon the essay.
SPAN 495 Honors Tutorial
Term: Fall
Credits: 4-8
/uni00A0/uni00A0
SPAN 496 Honors Tutorial
Term: Spring
Credits: 4-8
/uni00A0/uni00A0
URBN 120 Introduction to Memphis for
Bonner/Day Scholars
Term: Spring
Credits: 1
This course, which is currently open only to ﬁrst-year Bonner and Day Scholars, oﬀers an
opportunity to discuss the ongoing challenges and opportunities to Rhodes students doing
engagement work in the city of Memphis. The class has three interlocking goals: 1) provide an
introduction to historical and contemporary topics in the Memphis area; 2) oﬀer opportunities for
students to reﬂect on the ﬁrst year of their work on campus and in the community and to enrich
that work throughout their Rhodes career 3) explore connections for between the work of Bonner
and Day Scholars in Memphis and their other academic interests. In weekly meetings, students will
examine and explore these topics through a variety of activities.
URBN 201 Introduction to Urban Studies
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 4
This course provides an introduction to the interdisciplinary ﬁeld of urban studies. It focuses on the
strengths, issues, and problems of contemporary cities and the people who live and work in urban
areas. It provides frameworks for examining how cities are sustained and change over time. While
drawing on examples of cities in the U.S. and around the world, this course takes advantage of
Rhodes College’s location and the knowledge of local stakeholders, emphasizing Memphis as an
urban case study. This course is not open to seniors.
/uni00A0
Degree Requirements
F8
F11
URBN 220 Social Statistics
Term: Fall
Credits: 4
An introductory statistics course that covers descriptive statistics, the foundation of inferential
statistics, and inferential analysis. Students will analyze social data, speciﬁcally related to urban
issues, attitudes, and policies, using calculators and computer software. This class will also equip
students with the tools for program assessment. This course aims to increase students
understanding of statistical concepts through the lens of the urban environment.
/uni00A0
Degree Requirements
F6
URBN 230 Urban Geography
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 4
This course examines the history of urbanization from a geographic perspective. This entails an
analysis of the historical development of
cities and an investigation of the spatial theories utilized to understand the causes of urbanization
and its impacts on everyday life. The
course begins with a discussion of key concepts such as industrialization, urban political-economy,
suburbanization, and the ghetto/inner
city. The course then focuses on four inter-related urban processes: working in the city, governing
the city, living in the city, and urban
social movements. This course begins to tell a more complete story of the urban form and the way
in which this mode of life continues to
alter human institutions and social relations well beyond the boundaries of the city.
Degree Requirements
F2i
F8
URBN 235 Principals of Public Health
Term: Fall
Credits: 4
This course focuses on public health principles and concepts. It will provide a framework for
understanding public health’s role in community health, prevention, and medicine. Using the ﬁve
core public health knowledge areas and the ten essential public health services as a basis,
students will examine public health infrastructure, surveillance, social determinants of health,
policy, and emerging issues./uni00A0 In addition, the course will weave public health areas such as chronic
disease, infectious disease, environmental health, maternal and child health, and injury into
discussions and assignments.
URBN 240 Introduction to Urban and
Community Health
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 4
This course focuses on the production of health inequalities and the policy interventions proposed
to reduce them, with an emphasis on
US cities and Memphis. The course begins by examining the concept of health and its key social
determinants. The remainder of the
course focuses on applying these conceptual foundations to evaluate community health policies,
including access to health care, obesity,
gun violence, and environmental health. It uses Memphis as a case study through which to
understand many of the challenges of urban
health, as well as the potential policy interventions.
Degree Requirements
F8
URBN 250 Intercultural Knowledge and
Competence
Credits: 4
This course focuses on helping students acquire the knowledge, attitudes, and skills necessary to
interact eﬀectively in diverse cultural
contexts. Multiple pedagogical strategies are used to foster student growth including: (1) exposing
students to interdisciplinary
scholarship that contextualizes the experiences of people from diverse cultural backgrounds, (2)
requiring students to continually reﬂect
on how their own cultural identities have inﬂuenced their values, beliefs, and worldviews, and (3)
providing multiple opportunities for
students to practice and enhance their intercultural competence skills. Although the course
focuses primarily on the experiences of
diverse cultural groups within the US, the skills learned should be transferable across multiple
contexts.
Degree Requirements
F9
URBN 262 Music and Community in Memphis
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 2
In the course, students will join the Mike Curb Institute for Music to explore and understand the
richness and complexity of Memphis through research and study, refection, and real-world
experience. Theories and best practices of community integrative education will be studied and
applied to tangible projects though the unifying theme of music and community. Students will
come to this class from multiple backgrounds (Music, Film, Art, Urban Studies, History, English,
Business, Computer Science, etc.) that will inform a variety of projects related to recording,
marketing, entrepreneurship, music outreach and education, research, preservation, design, or
performance. They will meet together to discuss and reﬂect on how their experiences in the class
connect with what they have learned in other classes, and how their projects connect to each
other and the city of Memphis. Students will also explore and reﬂect on how experiences like
these shape their outlook on urban spaces and the role of the arts in these spaces.
URBN 265 Special Topics
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 4
Study of selected topics in urban studies. Varies with instructor. May be repeated for credit when
topics vary.
URBN 270 Black Communities and Law
Enforcement
Term: Fall
Credits: 4
This course explores how law enforcement in the United States was designed to unjustly surveil,
suppress, and oppress Black bodies. We will interrogate the mythical origins of policing, explore
the role of violence in state-sanctioned law enforcement, and study the variegated ways that
police oﬃcers violate the humanity of particular groups of people.
/uni00A0
URBN 320 Globalization and Cities
Term: Fall
Credits: 4
Globalization and Cities will take you on a trip to various cities around the world. This course will
provide a global perspective of cities and an urban perspective of globalization. Through this
course we will learn the ongoing demographic, cultural, social, political, and environmental
transformations and challenges during the process of urbanization in the world. We will also
examine the roles of cities in both producing and consuming globalization as well as the
interrelationship between globalization and localization.
/uni00A0
Degree Requirements
F8
F9
URBN 340 Nonproﬁts in the City: Health,
Community, and the Voluntary Spirit
Term: Spring
Credits: 4
Nonproﬁts have always performed an important role in the production and maintenance of healthy
cities. From early settlement houses,
soup kitchens, garden clubs and dispensaries to present day community development
organizations, charter schools, hospitals and afterschool
programs, nonproﬁts provide much of the social, political, and economic infrastructure that allow
urban residents to live healthy
and productive lives. This course utilizes a political-economic perspective to examine the history of
urban nonproﬁts in the United
States. It explores the legal frameworks and ﬁnancing that allow nonproﬁts to serve the community
as well as the wide variety of
services nonproﬁts provide. It concludes with an assessment of the nonproﬁt environment in
Memphis
Prerequisites
Introduction to Urban Studies
Urban Politics and Policy
URBN 345 Urban Political Economy
Term: Fall
Credits:  4
Urban Political Economy
URBN 350 Community Development & Action
Term: Fall
Credits:  4
This class is designed to give students an active role in impacting Memphis neighborhoods
through the lenses of equity and justice. We will begin with a historical overview of neighborhood
change across America, analyzing the key policies and local decisions that led Memphis’
neighborhoods to look the way they do today. Students will then learn the contemporary
challenges facing urban neighborhoods using a speciﬁc community project or initiative as a case
study. Students will gather available neighborhood data, community feedback, and national best
practices centered around implementing an equitable approach to the speciﬁc neighborhood
revitalization project. The course is divided into three parts.
Part I: The evolution of neighborhoods and the impact of key housing and economic development
policy at the local and national level for many predominantly African-American neighborhoods
Part II: The historical and modern context of the neighborhood will be discussed. Speciﬁcally,
focusing on how the same national policy and divestment dynamics played out in this Memphis
neighborhood; an analysis of modern geospatial neighborhood data and other public data to
establish a baseline for the holistic health of the neighborhood today
Part III: The class will work in partnership with a speciﬁed community partner, to help design and
implement the speciﬁc plan; students will be responsible for a speciﬁc aspect of the project; class
will culminate with a presentation of key deliverables to the residents of the neighborhood.
Prerequisites
Introduction to Urban Studies
URBN 362 Urban Field Research
Term: Spring
Credits:  4
This course provides the opportunity for students to integrate academic understandings, research
skills, and community based learning.
Students, faculty, and community partners design and conduct ﬁeld research addressing an urban
challenge or issue.
Degree Requirements
F11
URBN 365 Advanced Seminar on Special Topics
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits:  4
Advanced study of selected topics in urban studies. Varies with instructor. May be repeated for
credit when topics vary.
URBN 382 Music and Community in Memphis
Term: Fall
Credits:  2
In the course, students will join the Mike Curb Institute for Music to explore and understand the
richness and complexity of the urban
setting of Memphis through research, refection, and real-world experience. Theories and best
practices of Community Integrative
Education will be studied and applied to tangible projects though the unifying theme of music and
community.
This class will be taught simultaneously with URBN 262, with students in URBN 362 working as
student leaders and mentors for the
projects. Students will work to develop and reﬂect on their own personal leadership skills and
thoughts on becoming engaged citizens.
Prerequisites
Music and Community in Memphis
URBN 385 Senior Research Design
Term: Fall
Credits:  4
This course will examine methods for conducting interdisciplinary research in urban studies and
health equity. Students will link substantive research questions to appropriate research methods,
including both qualitative and quantitative approaches. Students will also develop a research
proposal for their capstone project, which will be completed in the senior seminar and will
represent their signature work in urban studies or health equity.
URBN 451 Research Practicum in Urban Studies
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits:  1-4
Students will work on a research project under the close supervision of a faculty member. Only 4
practicum credits may count toward the
major. This is a pass/fail course.
URBN 452 Research Practicum in Urban Studies
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits:  1-4
Students will work on a research project under the close supervision of a faculty member. Only 4
practicum credits may count toward the
major. This is a pass/fail course.
URBN 460 Urban Studies Internship
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits:  4
A directed internship with an urban, social, governmental, or nonproﬁt agency. The courses
integrate traditional academic work in Urban
Studies with practical internship experience.
Degree Requirements
F11
URBN 485 Senior Seminar in Urban Studies
Term: Spring
Credits:  4
An investigation of subject areas in the discipline of Urban Studies that involves research
collaboration between students and faculty.
URBN 535 Social Contexts of Urban Schools
Term: Fall
Credits: 4
This course is an investigation into the contexts of work in urban schools./uni00A0 Focusing on community
assets and resources, theories of the ways schools are embedded in communities, and the many
social and political contexts that impact life and work in urban schools, teacher candidates will gain
a broader conception of the ‘urban’ and the many inﬂuences on urban students both in school and
outside of school.
ASTD 150 Themes in Asian Studies
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 4
This introductory course examines the historical and cultural experiences of various peoples of
Asia through a thematic approach. The course takes a comparative approach to a particular topic
that reﬂects important forces that have had an impact throughout Asia. By examining a broad
theme that has had resonance throughout Asia, the student will develop an appreciation for the
complexity and diversity of Asian cultures while at the same time exploring common forces that
have shaped those cultures. Such themes could include
the development of Buddhism in Asia, comparative approaches to Asian theatre, and the history of
Asian societies’ experiences with Western political and economic expansionism.
HEBR 101 Elementary Hebrew
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 4
An introduction to classical (biblical) Hebrew. This series of courses will introduce students to the
fundamentals of classical Hebrew,
focusing on translation and recognition of grammatical forms and syntax. The sequence of courses
through Hebrew 201 will prepare
students to read and interpret ancient texts for a variety of academic and vocational contexts.
Oﬀered in alternate years.
HEBR 102 Elementary Hebrew
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 4
An introduction to classical (biblical) Hebrew. This series of courses will introduce students to the
fundamentals of classical Hebrew,
focusing on translation and recognition of grammatical forms and syntax. The sequence of courses
through Hebrew 201 will prepare
students to read and interpret ancient texts for a variety of academic and vocational contexts.
Oﬀered in alternate years.
HEBR 201 Intermediate Hebrew
Term: Fall
Credits: 4
An intermediate course in classical (biblical) Hebrew. The course will focus on translation and
interpretation of grammatical forms and
syntax in narrative prose. The sequence of courses through Hebrew 201 will prepare students to
read and interpret ancient texts for a
variety of academic and vocational contexts. Oﬀered in alternate years.
Degree Requirements
F10
Prerequisites
Elementary Hebrew
HEBR 415 Tutorial Assistantship
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 2
Under the direction of the instructor, the tutorial assistant will be responsible for helping to plan
and conduct tutorial sessions for
elementary students. Assistants will also be introduced to best practices for language instruction.
This course is open only to advanced
students and by permission of the instructor.
ARCE 120 Field Research in Environmental
Archaeology
Term: Summer
Credits:  4
This course and accompanying lab focus on a scientiﬁc understanding of the biological and
geological methods and theories that are
relevant to human/environmental interaction in pre-historic and historic sites of human occupation.
Research questions to be discussed
involve three major areas of study: 1) relationships between site formation processes,
environmental change and human activity; 2) plant
and animal domestication and exploitation; and 3) methods for dating artifacts. The class and lab
are held in May and early June at the
Ames Plantation in Tennessee. Enrollment is limited; students must apply for acceptance through
the director of the Archaeology
Program.
Degree Requirements
F7
F11
ARCE 210 Learning from Things: Material
Culture Studies
Term: Spring
Credits:  4
While we are symbol users and inhabitants of imagined worlds, we are also tool makers whose
hands are “dirtied” in manipulating the
world. This course will focus attention on our “materiality” and our engagement with the material
world. Examples of material culture
studies will be drawn from such disciplines as archaeology, anthropology, geography, history, art
history, folklore, popular culture,
architecture, and museum studies. Material culture studies, while a rich source of information is
also a challenging arena for the study of
individuals, societies and cultures because objects neither “speak” unambiguously nor directly to
us. Students will come to appreciate
how astute observation underpinned by theoretical acumen and the clever framing of questions
can allow us to “learn from things.” This
course is cross-listed as Anthropology/Sociology 290.
ARCE 220 Archaeological Methods
Credits:  4
This class will examine how we use archaeological materials to learn about past societies by
studying the traces that their inhabitants left
behind. Students will explore the range of methods used in the ﬁeld, laboratory, and museum to
ﬁnd, record, date, preserve,
contextualize, and interpret material culture. Basic methods of investigation and research will be
discussed through the examination of
site survey, excavation, and the analysis of artifacts. Students will be introduced to various systems
of archaeological classiﬁcation and
analytical techniques for understanding objects such as lithic artifacts, pottery, human skeletal
remains, and other historic and prehistoric
artifacts. Artifact illustration, photography, cataloguing, and curating will also be discussed. This
course is cross-listed as
Anthropology/Sociology 254.
ARCE 450 Archaeological Field School
Term: Summer
Credits:  4
A supervised training course (ordinarily in the summer) in archaeological methods at a controlled
excavation. Students will live on the
site and participate as crewmembers in the excavation, registration, restoration and publication of
archaeological remains. Most students
will participate in the Rhodes summer ﬁeld school at the Ames Plantation, but alternative ﬁeld
schools in the USA or abroad are
acceptable alternatives pending the approval of the chair of the Archaeology Program.
Degree Requirements
F11
ARCE 460 Internship
Credits:  4
A supervised learning experience involving archaeological and/or material culture studies out of
state, abroad, or in the community
outside of the college. This may include museums, laboratories, cultural resource management
ﬁrms, cultural conservation projects,
historical landmarks, surveying ﬁrms, etc. The student and the faculty advisor will devise the
program of ﬁeld work and submit it for
approval to the chair of the Archaeology Program.
AERO 111 Air Force Today
Term: Fall
Credits: 1
Survey course designed to introduce students to the United States Air Force and Air Force ROTC.
Topics include Air Force mission and organization, customs and courtesies, oﬃcer opportunities,
problem solving, and communication skills. One class hour per week and one and one-half hours
of Leadership Laboratory.
AERO 112 Air Force Today
Term: Spring
Credits: 1
Survey course designed to introduce students to the United States Air Force and Air Force ROTC.
Topics include Air Force mission and organization, customs and courtesies, oﬃcer opportunities,
problem solving, and communication skills. One class hour per week and one and one-half hours
of Leadership Laboratory.
AERO 211 The Air Force Way
Term: Fall
Credits: 1
Survey course designed to examine aspects of air and space power through a historical
perspective. The course covers the time period from the ﬁrst balloons and dirigibles to the space
age global positioning systems of the Persian Gulf War. Leadership Laboratory is mandatory for
AFROTC cadets. One class hour per week and one and one-half hours of Leadership Laboratory.
AERO 212 The Air Force Way
Term: Spring
Credits: 1
Survey course designed to examine aspects of air and space power through a historical
perspective. The course covers the time period from the ﬁrst balloons and dirigibles to the space
age global positioning systems of the Persian Gulf War. Leadership Laboratory is mandatory for
AFROTC cadets. One class hour per week and one and one-half hours of Leadership Laboratory.
AERO 301 Field Training
Term: Summer
Credits: 0
Twenty-eight day course conducted during summer at active installation of USAF, consists of
approximately 185 hours of instruction in Air Force base functions, leadership, physical training, Air
Force environment, career orientation, and survival training. Students assigned to groups of
twenty-ﬁve and individually counseled and evaluated on their performance. Emphasis on self
initiated leadership activities.
AERO 302 Field Training
Term: Summer
Credits: 0
Forty-two day course conducted during summer at active installation of USAF. Consists of
approximately 258 hours of instruction on role of military forces, organization of Defense
Department, instruments of national security, Air Force base functions, leadership, physical training
and Air Force environment. Students are assigned to groups of approximately twenty-ﬁve and
individually counseled and evaluated on their performance.
AERO 311 Air Force Leadership and
Management
Term: Fall
Credits: 3
Study of leadership, Air Force personnel and evaluation systems, management fundamentals,
professional knowledge, leadership ethics, and communication skills required of an Air Force
junior oﬃcer. Case studies are used to demonstrate and exercise practical application of concepts
studied. Three class hours per week and one and one-half hours of Leadership Laboratory.
AERO 312 Air Force Leadership and
Management
Term: Spring
Credits: 3
Study of leadership, Air Force personnel and evaluation systems, management fundamentals,
professional knowledge, leadership ethics, and communication skills required of an Air Force
junior oﬃcer. Case studies are used to demonstrate and exercise practical application of concepts
studied. Three class hours per week and one and one-half hours of Leadership Laboratory.
AERO 411 Preparation for Active Duty
Term: Fall
Credits: 3
Examines the national security process, regional studies, advanced leadership ethics, and Air
Force doctrine. Special topics include the military as a profession, oﬃcership, military justice,
civilian control of the military, and preparation for active duty. Within this structure, continued
emphasis is given to reﬁning communication skills. Three class hours per week and one and one
half hours of Leadership Laboratory.
AERO 412 Preparation for Active Duty
Term: Spring
Credits: 3
Examines the national security process, regional studies, advanced leadership ethics, and Air
Force doctrine. Special topics include the military as a profession, oﬃcership, military justice,
civilian control of the military, and preparation for active duty. Within this structure, continued
emphasis is given to reﬁning communication skills. Three class hours per week and one and one
half hours of Leadership Laboratory.
MILS 100 Leadership Laboratory
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 0
Two laboratory hours per week.
Co-requisite: MILS 111 or 112
MILS 111 Introduction to Military Science
Term: Fall
Credits: 1
Introduction to Army ROTC with hands-on approach through several basic military skills. Lectures
and practical exercises in following areas: rappelling, communications, weapons, ﬁrst aid, and land
navigation. There is no military obligation.
Co-requisite: MILS 100; there is no military obligation./uni00A0
MILS 112 Principles of Leadership and
Conﬁdence Building
Term: Spring
Credits: 0
Basic military ﬁrst aid skills; lectures and practical exercises in basic emergency treatment for
fractures, lacerations, heat and cold injuries; cardiopulmonary resuscitation.
Co-requisite: MILS 100; there is no military obligation./uni00A0
MILS 200 Leadership Laboratory
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 0
Two laboratory hours per week.
Co-requisite: MILS 210 or 211; there is no military obligation./uni00A0
MILS 210 American Military History
Term: Fall
Credits: 3
Developments since colonial period; emphasis on background and growth of national military and
naval establishments; military and naval thought; diﬃculties accompanying modernization and
assumption of global responsibilities; and problems of relationship between civilian and military
naval sectors in democracy.
Co-requisite: MILS 200; there is no military obligation./uni00A0
MILS 211 Fundamental Survival
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 0
Basic Military Skills including map reading, military ﬁrst aid skills and small unit leadership. One
hour weekly classroom instruction.
Co-requisite: MILS 200; there is no military obligation./uni00A0
MILS 214 Small Unit Tactics I
Term: Fall
Credits: 0
Emphasis on preparation of the individual for combat. Preparation of potential leaders in combat
through study of the knowledge and skills needed by an individual soldier. Skill developed in
planning and organizing by combat patrols. This course includes series of ﬁeld practica; there is no
military obligation.
MILS 215 Small Unit Tactics II
Term: Fall
Credits: 0
Advanced concepts in reconnaissance, raid, and ambush patrolling techniques, extended
patrolling operations, and application techniques for specialized equipment; leadership skills
through student led patrols. This course includes a series of ﬁeld practica; there is no military
obligation.
MILS 300 Leadership Laboratory
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 0
Two laboratory hours per week.
Co-requisite: MILS 311 or 312
MILS 311 Applied Leadership I
Term: Fall
Credits: 3
Presentation, discussion, practical exercise, and ﬁeld training on fundamentals of map reading and
land navigation; development of skills in individual and small unit tactical planning and operations;
and professional subjects in leadership, leadership assessment, and principles of war. Three
lecture hours per week, three hours physical training per week, and ﬁeld training exercises on two
weekends during semester.
Co-requisite: MILS 300
MILS 312 Applied Leadership II
Term: Spring
Credits:  3
Continuation of ﬁrst year advanced course.
Co-requisite: MILS 300
MILS 400 Leadership Laboratory
Term: Spring
Credits:  0
Two laboratory hours per week.
Co-requisite: MILS 411 or 412
MILS 411 Seminar in Leadership and Planning
Term: Fall
Credits:  3
Leadership and management skill development in speciﬁc areas of oral and written
communications, training management, personnel evaluation and counseling, personnel
management systems of Army, U.S. Army logistic systems, military justice, and familiarization with
ethics of military professional. This course, in conjunction with ARMY 4121, completes the cadet’s
preparation for commissioning as a Second Lieutenant in the Army Reserve or National Guard.
Three lecture hours every week, three hours physical training each week, and ﬁeld training
exercises on two weekends during semester.
Co-requisite: MILS 400
MILS 412 Seminar in Organizational Leadership
Term: Spring
Credits:  3
Continuation of second year advanced course.
Co-requisite: MILS 400
NAVY 150 Intro Naval Science
Term: Fall
Credits: 3
General introduction to the USN and USMC. Emphasizes organizational structure, warfare
components, and assigned roles/missions of USN/USMC. Covers all aspects of naval service from
its relative position within DoD to the speciﬁc warfare communities/career paths. Also includes
basic elements of leadership and Navy Core Values. Designed to give student initial exposure to
many elements of naval culture. Also provides conceptual framework/working vocabulary for
student to use on summer cruise./uni00A0COREQUISITE: NAVY 151.
NAVY 151 Navy Leadership Lab
Term: Fall
Credits: 0
Focuses on the fundamentals of leadership and general military training to help prepare
prospective Naval oﬃcers for service in either the Navy or Marine Corps. Topics cover general
Navy/Marine Corps mission and policies, force protection, operational security, watch standing,
physical ﬁtness, nutrition, stress management, and other professional development subjects.
Consists of a general leadership lab and a speciﬁc Navy or Marine Corps lab.
NAVY 250 Naval Leadership/Management
Term: Fall
Credits: 3
Introduces the student to many of the fundamental concepts of leading Sailors and Marines, which
will be expanded upon during the continuum of leadership development throughout NROTC.
Develops the elements of leadership vital to the eﬀectiveness of Navy/Marine Corps oﬃcers by
reviewing the theories and parameters of leadership and management within and outside of the
naval service and progressing through values development, interpersonal skills, management
skills, and application theory. Practical applications are explored through the use of experiential
exercises, readings, case studies, and laboratory discussions. COREQUISITE: NAVY 251.
NAVY 251 Naval Leadership Lab
Term: Fall
Credits: 0
Focuses on the fundamentals of leadership and general military training to help prepare
prospective Naval oﬃcers for service in either the Navy or Marine Corps. Topics cover general
Navy/Marine Corps mission and policies, force protection, operational security, watch standing,
physical ﬁtness, nutrition, stress management, and other professional development subjects.
Consists of a general leadership lab and a speciﬁc Navy or Marine Corps lab.
NAVY 350 Navigation/Naval Operations I
Term: Fall
Credits: 3
In-depth study of the theory, principles, procedures, and application of plotting, piloting, and
electronic navigation, as well as an introduction to maneuvering boards. Students learn piloting
techniques, the use of charts, the use of visual and electronic aids, and the theory of operation of
both magnetic and gyrocompasses. Students develop practical skills in plotting and electronic
navigation. Other topics include tides, currents, eﬀects of wind/weather, voyage planning, and an
application and introduction to the international/inland rules of navigation. The course is
supplemented with a review/analysis of case studies involving moral/ethical/leadership issues
pertaining to the concepts listed above. COREQUISITE: NAVY 351.
NAVY 351 Navy Leadership Lab
Term: Fall
Credits: 0
Focuses on the fundamentals of leadership and general military training to help prepare
prospective Naval oﬃcers for service in either the Navy or Marine Corps. Topics cover general
Navy/Marine Corps mission and policies, force protection, operational security, watch standing,
physical ﬁtness, nutrition, stress management, and other professional development subjects.
Consists of a general leadership lab and a speciﬁc Navy or Marine Corps lab.
NAVY 450 Navy Ship Systems II/Weapons
Term: Fall
Credits: 3
Outlines the theory and employment of weapons systems. Student explores the processes of
detection, evaluation, threat analysis, weapon selection, delivery, guidance, and explosives. Fire
control systems and major weapons types are discussed, including capabilities and limitations. The
physical aspects of radar and underwater sound are described. Facets of command, control,
communications, computers, and intelligence are explored as a means of weapons system
integration. The tactical and strategic signiﬁcance of command and control warfare and information
warfare is discussed. This course is supplemented with review/ analysis of case studies involving
the moral and ethical responsibilities of leaders in the employment of weapons. COREQUISITE:
NAVY 451./uni00A0
NAVY 451 Naval Leadership Lab
Term: Fall
Credits: 0
Focuses on the fundamentals of leadership and general military training to help prepare
prospective Naval oﬃcers for service in either the Navy or Marine Corps. Topics cover general
Navy/Marine Corps mission and policies, force protection, operational security, watch standing,
physical ﬁtness, nutrition, stress management, and other professional development subjects.
Consists of a general leadership lab and a speciﬁc Navy or Marine Corps lab.
LANG 150 Selected Foreign Languages
Credits: Variable
Certain foreign languages not listed above as regular course oﬀerings are taught on occasion.
Information concerning languages not
regularly taught may be obtained from the Registrar or the department chair.
LANG 240 Language Aquisition and Pedagogy
Term: Spring
Credits: 4
This course is a survey of a range of issues related to language acquisition and teaching. Among
the areas covered are instructional methodologies and approaches, second language acquisition
theories, language skill development, language teaching and learning technology, communicative
and cultural competency, and assessment.
/uni00A0
Rhodes oﬀers a secondary licensure program within the Teaching and Learning track of the
Educational Studies major. This program prepares students to teach middle and/or high school in
one of eleven endorsement areas, including the following languages: Chinese, English, French,
German, Latin, Russian, and Spanish. The course of study for secondary licensure students is
designed with guidance from faculty members in the discipline in which the student is being
certiﬁed as well as members of the Educational Studies Program. All secondary licensure
candidates are required to double major in Educational Studies and their endorsement discipline.
LANG 260 International Science Fiction and
Utopia: Shaping of Ideological Landscapes
Term: Spring
We are living through a time of great socio-political transformations, and history shows us that
many cultural products labeled “science ﬁction” have become perfect metaphors of our fears and
hopes (eg: Brave New World and 1984). Up to a point, science ﬁction allows us to objectively see
the aspirations and taboos of our intellectual and ideological landscape. But what is then the
relation between science ﬁction and utopia? In this course, we will widely question the limits of
these two concepts by bringing together the expertise of a whole variety of scholars from both
Rhodes and the Memphis community, from the ﬁelds of Modern Languages, Physics, English,
Russian, Biology, Neuroscience, Gender Studies and Film Studies. We will go far beyond the limits
of Anglo-Saxon cultural production and engage a body of international cultural texts and ﬁlms,
which could help us understand the limits and points of contact of each tradition/culture. The
possibility of bringing into the picture of cultural analysis not just humanists, but also scientists from
diﬀerent ﬁelds, will allow us to expand the concept of “utopia” beyond its understanding within the
literary tradition and to explore the “utopic” component of the diﬀerent sciences as well.
LANG 280 Introduction to General Linquistics
Term: Spring
Credits: 4
The Introduction to General Linguistics course presents language as a speciﬁc object of
knowledge, thought, science, and philosophy.
Students will be introduced to the major linguistic theories and examine language as a system and
structure at its various levels, as well
as a tool to guide, plan, and monitor human activity. Oﬀered in alternate years.
Degree Requirements
F9
LANG 460 Internship
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 1-4
Internships in the departmental languages are occasionally available for language majors and
permit a qualiﬁed student to receive academic credit for an internship experience on or oﬀ
campus, for example by working with a business, a non-proﬁt organization, or within the
department itself. The internship, which requires of the student an advanced competence in a
foreign language, must entail a signiﬁcant encounter with a foreign language. Working with a
faculty mentor, students must submit a project proposal for the internship prior to the beginning of
the internship itself. The completed project will be graded by the faculty mentor. Intradepartmental
internships will be reserved for students planning to continue their studies in a foreign language
and culture beyond the undergraduate level. Such internal internships will involve working with a
faculty mentor on projects of a diverse nature that seek to enhance the program oﬀerings of the
language section. Placements must be approved by the faculty mentor who teaches the language
in question and the chair of the department. Internship credit will not be awarded retroactively and
does not count toward the total number of credits required for the major.
Pass/Fail only.
Degree Requirements
F11
HLEQ 210 Introduction to Health Equity
Term: Fall
Credits: 4
A community-engaged course that explores health as a social construction, paying special
attention to how and why social determinants of health and health disparities produce predictably
worse health outcomes for stigmatized populations. We aim to increase our ability to think
structurally about the complex relationships between social class, racialized identity, access to
health care, neighborhoods, and health outcomes.
/uni00A0
Degree Requirements
F9
F11
HLEQ 410 Health Equity and Health Disparities
Credits: 4
This course explores health as a social construction, paying special attention to how and why
social determinants of health and health disparities produce predictably worse health outcomes
for stigmatized populations.
Degree Requirements
F9
F11
HLEQ 415 Intercultural Communication for
Health and Healthcare
Term: Summer
Credits: 4
This course examines how communication practices diﬀer across cultures and social groups.
Students will develop skills that help them communicate more eﬀectively in clinical settings where
healthcare providers and patients may occupy very diﬀerent social locations. Students will make
site visits and engage in role playing to imrove their communication skills.
/uni00A0
HLEQ 420 Developing Cultural Humility
Term: Spring
Credits: 4
This course interrogates the role that unconscious bias performs in the practices, policies, and
attitudes of healthcare practitioners, a performance that results in diminished health outcomes for
stigmatized populations. This course will aim to (1) foster an awareness of this reality and (2)
develop a set of skills that will minimize the eﬀects of bias ans increase equity in health outcomes.
HLEQ 430 Narrative Medicine and Inequality
Term: Fall
Credits: 4
This course introduces students to the methods of Narrative Medicine as a practice that
contributes to high-quality person-centered care. Students will learn techniques for skillful listening
that is attentive to the ways persons who occupy diﬀerent social locations narrate their embodied
experiences. The course explores how a narrative approach might be especially useful in
addressing disparities related to social inequalities.
HLEQ 435 Global Health and Local Practice
Term: Spring, Summer
Credits: 4
This course introduces students to global health disparities and examines eﬀorts currently
underway to address them. Taking an anthropological approach, students will explore key political,
economic, ecological, and sociocultural factors that contribute to (or reduce) global health inequity.
Students will learn to think critically and creatively about the policies, systems, values, and ethical
challenges that shape global health priorities and inﬂuence health care access and utilization. By
the end of this course, students will have an increased understanding of the micro dynamics of
local worlds and the macro dynamics of large-scale social forces that present contemporary
challenges for global health researchers, policy makers, and practitioners./uni00A0
HLEQ 440 Politics of Health and Healthcare
Policy
Term: Fall
Credits: 4
This course explores the politics of health care policy making in the United States. In order to
understand health care policy making in the U.S., the course will explore the history of health care
policy making in the U.S., the philosophical underpinnings of the role of health in social and
political relations, health luck, and health justice, and the economics of health care demand and
health care supply. The course will also place the U.S. experience with health care in a
comparative global context. The course will also explore the way power dynamics inﬂuence the
way we think about, experience, and attempt to inﬂuence health care policy in the U.S. As such,
the course will explore the factors that inﬂuence one’s health including social determinants such as
education, geography, income, and race; access to health care; genetics; environmental factors;
lifestyle factors; as well as the ways other public policies, such as transportation, welfare, and
education, inﬂuence health.
HLEQ 445 Research Methods in Health
Disparities
Credits: 4
This course examines a variety of qualitative and quantitative approaches to research on health
disparities. Students will learn to link substantive research questions to appropriate research
methods and will develop an understanding of critical questions and ethics in research
approaches.
PLAW 151 United States Politics
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 4
What is the foundation of government in the United States? What are its purposes? How is the
constitution of government designed to achieve those purposes? How well does it in fact fulﬁll
those purposes? Major topics and controversies include the nature of politics, individual liberty and
constitutionalism, the federal structure of government, elections and political parties, interest
groups, representation, Congress, the Presidency, the Judiciary, civil rights and liberties. Some
sections may be open only to ﬁrst year students, and all sections are open to seniors only by
permission of the department. Advanced Placement credit in Political Science or Government
counts only as four general credits toward the major. Therefore, all Political Science majors must
take 151.
Degree Requirements
F2i
F8
PLAW 205 Introduction to Public Policy
Term: Fall
Credits: 4
In short, public policy includes whatever government chooses to do or not to do. As such, this
course will explore the reasons why government acts, how government acts, and the types of
actions it takes. The course is not designed to convince you whether particular public policies are
good or bad, but to think carefully and analytically about why they exist and how they function. The
course is not about any particular public policy. /uni00A0However, the course will engage a wide variety of
contemporary public policy debates in the areas of health care, welfare, the environment,
regulation of business, energy, transportation, and education to provide examples of the concepts
and theories we will discuss in the course.
Prerequisites
United States Politics
PLAW 205 Introduction to Public Policy
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 4
In short, public policy includes whatever government chooses to do or not to do. As such, this
course will explore the reasons why government acts, how government acts, and the types of
actions it takes. The course is not designed to convince you whether particular public policies are
good or bad, but to think carefully and analytically about why they exist and how they function. The
course is not about any particular public policy. /uni00A0However, the course will engage a wide variety of
contemporary public policy debates in the areas of health care, welfare, the environment,
regulation of business, energy, transportation, and education to provide examples of the concepts
and theories we will discuss in the course.
Prerequisites
United States Politics
PLAW 206 Urban Politics and Policy
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 4
A critical introduction to urban America’s ﬁscal and racial problems, formal and informal political
processes, power structures, and alternative futures. We will also discuss problems and processes
of policy formation in the urban system.
Prerequisites
United States Politics
PLAW 207 Race and Ethnic Politics
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 4
A general survey of minority politics in the United States. We will explore the historic and
contemporary importance of race and ethnicity in American politics, particularly in relation to
political institutions, political parties, voting coalitions, representation, and public policy. Attention is
paid to how the structures of the American political system disadvantage minority groups as they
attempt to gain the full beneﬁts of American society. In addition to exploring the diﬀerent agendas
and strategies adopted by racial and ethnic minority groups, this course also shows how
intertwined minority politics and American politics have been and continue to be. Not oﬀered
every year.
Prerequisites
United States Politics
PLAW 208 Media and Politics
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 4
An investigation of the power of media in American society and the interaction between media,
institutions, political actors, and the public. Topics covered may include the evolving role of media
as an institution in the political system, media ownership, media bias, race and gender in media,
media fragmentation, the relationship between media and public opinion, the role of news and
advertising in political campaigns, media coverage in crisis and wartime, and the impact of new
media on society. Underlying these topics, we consider the question of whether the role and
function of media today are helpful for or detrimental to political learning, participation, and
democratic government. Students will have the chance to explore ideas, concepts, and themes
through real-world, hands-on applications. Not eligible if you have completed the Topics course on
media and politics.
Prerequisites
United States Politics
PLAW 211 Politics and Literature
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 4
This course explores how literature (and the arts generally) express political ideas and pursue
political purposes. Topics and readings vary but they include: literary depictions of political causes,
political crises, war and peace, leaders and followers, conﬂicts of individuals and society, and the
competing demands of nature and civilization. Authors read in this course might include:
Sophocles, Shakespeare, Defoe, Stendahl, Austen, Dickens, Melville, Hawthorne, Twain, Robert
Penn Warren, Ralph Ellison, Don DeLillo, Phillip Roth and Tom Wolfe. Not oﬀered every year.
PLAW 212 American Political Thought and
Statesmanship
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 4
A survey of the ideas and controversies in American political thought and development from the
Puritans to the present. Topics may include: the philosophical origins of the Declaration of
Independence and the Constitution, selﬁshness and morality, federalism, the democratization of
politics, equality and slavery, laissez-faire capitalism and the welfare state, the civil rights
movement, and the redeﬁnitions of freedom and equality by, for example, the new left and
feminism. Not oﬀered every year.
Prerequisites
United States Politics
PLAW 230 Black Political Thought
Term: Summer
Credits: 4
A critical analysis of a variety of political goals, strategies, and tactics espoused since
Reconstruction. Views of Booker T. Washington, Marcus Garvey, W.E.B. DuBois, Martin Luther King,
Jr., and Malcolm X are among those normally considered.
Degree Requirements
F9
Prerequisites
United States Politics
PLAW 240 Urban Education Policy
Term: Spring
Credits: 4
This course explores the special challenges of designing eﬀective public education policy for
today’s postindustrial cities paying special attention to the challenges found in Memphis. After
framing the policy dilemmas in light of political, social, economic and educational history, the
course critically examines a variety of contemporary proposals related to issues such as Common
Core, standardized testing, teacher accountability, class size, school hours, charter schools, school
vouchers and early childhood education.
Prerequisites
United States Politics
PLAW 245 Southern Politics
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 4
An examination of politics in the American South, with special attention to political parties and
elections. Politics at the state level is considered, along with the place of the South in the national
political arena. Not oﬀered every year.
Prerequisites
United States Politics
PLAW 262 Trial Procedure
Term: Fall
Credits: 2
Students study and practice trial procedure. Topics include opening statements, direct
examination, cross examination, closing statements, objections, and preparing a witness./uni00A0This
course is required for Mock Trial Participation.
This course does not count toward the major or minor/uni00A0in Political Science.
PLAW 263 Mock Trial Participation
Term: Spring
Credits: 1
Preparation for and participation in intercollegiate Mock Trial competitions. Participants prepare
cases around assigned sets of facts. They then practice and compete in roles of both lawyer and
witness./uni00A0
A total of 4 credits may be earned for Mock Trial Participation./uni00A0
This course does not count toward the major or minor/uni00A0in Political Science.
Prerequisites
Trial Procedure
PLAW 264 Rights of the Accused
Term: Spring
Credits: 4
An academic assessment of rights of criminal defendants under the Sixth, Eighth, and Fourteenth
Amendments. Topics include the right to counsel, prosecutorial discretion and disclosures, the
confrontation clause, defenses and immunities (stand your ground laws, insanity pleas), and the
death penalty./uni00A0
This course does not count toward the major or minor/uni00A0in Political Science.
PLAW 270 Methods of Political Inquiry
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 4
Why do political scientists call themselves scientists? How can we learn about politics using the
tools of scientiﬁc inquiry? What are the tools of scientiﬁc inquiry? This course introduces the
methods political scientists (and others) use to generate and answer empirical questions about
politics. We explore a wide variety of quantitative and qualitative research methods, including
experiments, observation, interviews, and surveys. Students in this course will develop their own
research question and literature review, test hypotheses, and analyze data. This course is
recommended for the sophomore year and must be taken by the end of the junior year.
Prerequisites
United States Politics
PLAW 280 Topics in American Politics,
Government, and Policy
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 4
An examination of some aspect of American politics and institutions of government. Topics might
include: the judiciary, state and local government, intergovernmental relations, American political
development, the legislative process, campaign ﬁnance, political communication. Not oﬀered
every year.
Prerequisites
United States Politics
PLAW 283 Topics in Public Law
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 4
An examination of some aspect of law and the judicial branch. Topics might include: the 1st
Amendment, the 14th Amendment, state and local law, legal reform, and administrative law. Not
oﬀered every year.
Prerequisites
United States Politics
PLAW 286 Topics in Political Thought and
Philosophy
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 4
An examination of some aspect of political thought and philosophy./uni00A0Not oﬀered every year.
Prerequisites
United States Politics
PLAW 301 Civil Liberties
Term: Fall
Credits: 4
An examination of the federal judicial process and American constitutional principles.
Constitutional topics include free speech and assembly, church-state relations, abortion, gay rights,
euthanasia, and rights of the accused. Not eligible if you have completed POLS 301 Constitutional
Law and Politics.
Prerequisites Methods of Political Inquiry, One other 200 level POLS course, or permission of the
instructor.
Degree Requirements
F3
Prerequisites
Methods of Political Inquiry
PLAW 305 Public Policy Analysis
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 4
The objective of this course is to introduce students to the ﬁeld of public policy analysis. Rather
than focusing on the institutions that make public policy, such as legislatures, presidents,
governors, and courts, or the groups that impact the policymaking process, such as interest groups
and the media; this course provides students with an Introduction to the tools used to analyze
policies and a discussion of the political elements that aﬀect this analysis. The course will be
composed of several diﬀerent elements: 1) a discussion of the various meanings of public policy
analysis, 2) a presentation of the basic economic and political tools used to analyze public policies,
and 3) practice at analyzing current policy controversies. Essentially, the goal is to ensure that
student understand the basic economic principles used to evaluate diﬀerent public policy
proposals. However, as this is a political science course, other principal goals are to highlight the
weaknesses of some of these economic assumptions, discover how politics may alter these
otherwise sound assumptions, and examine the political environment in which policies are
analyzed and adopted. This course does not focus on any one policy area, so students are
encouraged to bring their own policy interests to the course. Not eligible if you have already
completed the Topics course on Public Policy Analysis. Not oﬀered every year.
Prerequisites:/uni00A0 Methods of Political Inquiry and Introduction to Public Policy or Introduction to
Economics, or the permission of the instructor.
PLAW 308 Political Advertising
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 4
Political advertising is potentially the most important component of modern political campaigns,
particularly in high-level races./uni00A0In some cases, political ads can consume over one-half of the
campaign budget targeting incumbents or challengers with emotional appeals and/or dramatic
attacks./uni00A0We are also experiencing dramatic shifts in campaigning as more candidates craft on-line
and social media appeals./uni00A0Parties and interest groups target key contests and insert their own
messages into campaign discourse./uni00A0This course gives students the chance to explore the
research, debates, and timely cases from the academic study of political advertising. Not oﬀered
every year.
Prerequisites Methods of Political Inquiry and one other 200 level course or permission of the
instructor.
PLAW 318 Poverty and Public Policy
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 4
This course explores the conditions and causes of poverty in the United States and the economic,
social, and political responses to it. During the ﬁrst half of the course, we will examine who is poor
in America and discuss various causal theories of why people are poor. During the second half of
the course, we will evaluate policy to address poverty in America and analyze them on how well
they have reduced poverty and what is still needed to be done. Not oﬀered every year.
Prerequisites: Methods of Political Inquiry and one other 200 level course, or the permission of the
instructor.
PLAW 319 Race, Housing and Urban
Revitalization
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 4
Why are some urban areas thriving while others continue to struggle? This course will explore the
history—and legacy—of our eﬀorts to revitalize our urban centers. We will examine the lifecycle of
a cross-section of urban communities, the forces behind their decline, the policies and key
stakeholders who spearheaded their revival and explore why some have not yet recovered. This
course places special emphasis on the role race has—and continues to play—in our housing and
urban policies and explores the policy conﬂicts and tensions that arise over who pays the costs of
urban revitalization. Not oﬀered every year.
Prerequisites:/uni00A0 Methods of Political Inquiry and one other 200 level course, or the permission of
the instructor.
PLAW 319 Race, Housing and Urban
Revitalization
Term: Fall
Credits: 4
Why are some urban areas thriving while others continue to struggle? This course will explore the
history—and legacy—of our eﬀorts to revitalize our urban centers. We will examine the lifecycle of
a cross-section of urban communities, the forces behind their decline, the policies and key
stakeholders who spearheaded their revival and explore why some have not yet recovered. This
course places special emphasis on the role race has—and continues to play—in our housing and
urban policies and explores the policy conﬂicts and tensions that arise over who pays the costs of
urban revitalization. Not oﬀered every year.
Pre-Requisites: Methods of Political Inquiry and one other 200 level course, or permission of the
instructor.
PLAW 320 Health Care Policy
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 4
This course examines the politics of health care policymaking in the United States./uni00A0The course will
spend a substantial amount of time addressing the passage and implementation of the Patient
Protection and A ﬀordable Care Act of 2010, but will also provide an historical context in which to
place recent health care legislation./uni00A0While the course focuses on the U.S. experience, it does also
include an examination of approaches to health care in other countries as a way of placing the U.S.
experience in a larger context. Not oﬀered every year.
Prerequisites: Methods of Political Inquiry and one other 200 level course, or the permission of the
instructor.
PLAW 340 The American Presidency
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 4
An exploration of the constitutional, historical and political aspects of the presidency. Speciﬁc
topics include the selection of the President, presidential leadership, personality, relations with
Congress and the Supreme Court, and the Vice Presidency.
Prerequisites: Methods of Political Inquiry and one other 200 level course, or permissions of the
instructor.
PLAW 360 Congress
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 4
The United States Congress is a rarity among representative assemblies in the rest of the world; it
actually legislates, and individual members of the House and the Senate directly aﬀect legislation
and policy. Why then is it also the least respected branch of our national government? Is it failing to
legislate eﬀectively? To represent fairly? This entire course explores these questions. Speciﬁc
topics include: representation; the framers’ original design for House and Senate; the evolution of
House and Senate; elections and incumbency; campaign ﬁnance and interest groups; the internal
organization of the two houses; the struggle for power between President and Congress.
Prerequisites: Methods of Political Inquiry and one other 200 level course, or the permission of the
instructor.
PLAW 380 Intermediate Topics in American
Politics, Government, and Policy
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 4
An examination of some aspect of American politics and institutions of government./uni00A0Topics vary
from year to year and students may repeat the course accordingly. Not oﬀered every year.
Prerequisites: Methods of Political Inquiry and one other 200 level course, or the permission of the
instructor.
PLAW 386 Intermediate Topics in Political
Thought and Philosophy
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 4
Problems of justice, law and morality explored through classic and contemporary works of political
philosophy and literature. Topics vary from year to year and students may repeat the course
accordingly. Not oﬀered every year.
Prerequisites: Methods of Political Inquiry and one of the following American Political Thought and
Statesmanship, Modern Ideologies, Philosophy of Law, Justice, Equality, and Liberty, Black Political
Thought, HUM201 (Politics Track), or the permission of the instructor.
PLAW 399 Junior Honors Tutorial
Term: Spring
Credits: 1
Junior Political Science majors who are considering pursuing honors research are required to
enroll in this preparatory tutorial. Enrollment in this course does not guarantee acceptance into the
Honors Program.
PLAW 440 Seminar in the Constitutional
Convention
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 4
A study of the Constitutional Convention of 1787 as a political event with philosophical
underpinnings. Special topics include the political environment, the major actors and
controversies, the ratiﬁcation debates, and continuing issues of constitutional reform. Not oﬀered
every year.
Prerequisite: One 300 level course, or permission of the instructor.
PLAW 451 Research Practicum
Term: Fall
Credits: 1-4
This course allows qualiﬁed students to become active participants in ongoing departmental
research projects. No more than 4 practicum credits may count towards the major. This course may
be taken pass/fail with approval of the instructor.
PLAW 452 Research Practicum
Term: Spring
Credits: 1-4
This course allows qualiﬁed students to become active participants in ongoing departmental
research projects. No more than 4 practicum credits may count towards the major. This course may
be taken pass/fail with approval of the instructor.
PLAW 460 Public A ﬀairs Internship
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 4
The focus of this course is a directed internship with a selected legal, governmental or community
agency. The course integrates traditional academic work in Political Science with practical
internship experiences. All internships/uni00A0must be approved by/uni00A0the Department of Political Science
Internship Director. Students should contact Career Services and the Internship Director prior to
enrollment to discuss the internship application process. Students may not receive any credit
toward a Political Science major from this course if they have received transfer credits for an
internship from the Washington Semester/uni00A0or Capitol Semester programs.
Prerequisites: Two Political Science courses and permission of the instructor.
Degree Requirements
F11
PLAW 461 Internship in Political Science
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 1-2
Similar to PLAW 460 but does not require class meetings and does not fulﬁll an F11 degree
requirement. Internship credit will not be awarded retroactively and does not count toward the
total number of credits required for the major. Pass/Fail only
PLAW 480 Advanced Topics in American
Politics, Government, and Policy
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 4
An investigation of an important subject area within the discipline of political science. Topics might
include constitutional controversies, the legislative process, political communication and behavior,
campaign design and strategy. Not oﬀered every year.
Prerequisites: One 300 level course
PLAW 485 Senior Seminar in Political Science
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 4
An advanced investigation of critical political problems and/or contemporary perspectives on
American democracy.
PLAW 495 Honors Tutorial
Term: Fall
Credits: 4
An advanced independent study, involving the completion of a major research project. Guidelines
for honors work in Political Science are available from the department chairperson.
PLAW 496 Honors Tutorial
Term: Spring
Credits: 4
An advanced independent study, involving the completion of a major research project. Guidelines
for honors work in Political Science are available from the department chairperson.
MST 120 Acting for New Media
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 4
This course focuses on acting for screen media, including fundamentals of character building,
improvisation, and on-camera technique. In addition to ongoing performance training, students will
practice the basics of digital video production and will be encouraged to develop their unique
perspective as a new media artist.
/uni00A0
Degree Requirements
F5
MST 202 Topics in Media Studies
Credits: 4
This course oﬀers an introduction to thinking critically about the power and inﬂuence of visual
media. Topics vary by semester, but in all sections, analysis is grounded in cultural studies; feminist,
anti-racist, or queer theoretical approaches; and poststructuralism.
/uni00A0
MST 240 Public Speaking
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 4
This course provides students with frequent opportunities to practice oral communication skills.
Students study the fundamentals of healthy and eﬃcient voice production, as well as the use of the
voice and body as instruments of expression and persuasion.
MST 245 Screenwriting
Term: Spring
Credits: 4
A hands-on introduction to generating scripts for ﬁlm, television, and new media. Students will
study the basics of the form, develop solo writing projects, and participate in a simulated writer's
room to practice collective creation. The course will emphasize process, including how to give and
receive reﬂective feedback.
MST 250 Podcasting
Term: Spring
Credits: 4
Students will learn the fundamentals of podcasting, and each will develop their own narrative-
driven, scripted podcast concept. Within the support of a creative workshop setting, students will
each write and produce a pilot episode of their podcast.
MST 265 LGBTQ+ Culture in Media
Term: Spring
Credits: 4
A deep dive into the politics and poetics of LGBTQ+ cultures onscreen. The course focuses on the
study of representations of gender and sexual minorities in contemporary feature ﬁlms,
experimental video, animation, scripted and reality TV, music videos, web series, commercials, and
video games. This is also a practicum class: over the course of the semester, students plan and
produce a piece of original media using the skills of the students enrolled.
MST 380 American Television
Term: Spring
Credits: 4
This course oﬀers an examination of American television as cultural communication, paying close
attention to its texts and technologies, contexts and audiences. It explores how media scholars
have conceptualized and theorized television. The course also examines particular TV genres and
investigates the impact of new media and globalization on contemporary television.
MST 385 Film and Media Theory
Credits: 4
This course oﬀers a historical and critical overview of ﬁlm and media theory from the origins of
classical ﬁlm to developments in social media. It considers questions of medium speciﬁcity as well
as media convergence. Students will learn how to analyze the ideological eﬀects of media,
particularly around issues of racial and sexual diﬀerence, national identity, capitalism, and power.
MST 460 Media Studies Internship
Term: Spring, Fall
Credits: 2-4
The internship program allows Media Studies students to apply theoretical, analytical, or
production skills learned in the classroom. Students have the opportunity to work with ﬁlm and
media organizations (e.g., production companies, Memphis and Shelby County Film and TV
Commission, Levitt Shell, etc.). Internships must be approved by the program chair.
In addition to the internship itself, students will work on weekly journal entries and reﬂection
essays. They will also meet regularly with the program chair.
MST 485 Senior Seminar
Credits: 4
This course oﬀers a focused exploration of special issues or critical problems in media studies. It
culminates in a major research essay or media product.
PPE 110 Philosophy, Politics, and Economics
Credits: 4
This is the introductory course for the Philosophy, Politics and Economics major, but we welcome
all students. The Political Economy program explores the relationships between ways of organizing
political life (e.g., aristocracy, pure democracy, liberal democracy) and ways of organizing
economic life (e.g., free-market capitalism, socialism, communism). How do economic systems
advance or frustrate the goals of political orders? The right goals of a political and economic order,
however, cannot be determined without exploring an array of philosophical questions: What is
justice? What is the best way of life for human beings? Is economic prosperity necessary to that
way of life? How can political and economic orders manage the conﬂicts between individual
selﬁshness and common goods? Are human beings equal? In what ways should we be equal and
free? What do we owe ourselves and what do we owe others? To what degree ought we to obey a
government? We will then delve into contentious public policy problems (e.g., the distribution of
wealth, income inequality, aﬃrmative action, immigration, sexual discrimination), each of which
poses moral, political, and economic questions. In general, our goal will be to think honestly and
precisely about the quandaries of social, political, and economic life./uni00A0This course is open to ﬁrst-
year students, sophomores,/uni00A0and those with permission of the instructor.
Degree Requirements
F2i
PPE 486 Senior Seminar in Philosophy, Politics,
and Economics
Term: Spring
Credits: 4
Senior Seminar oﬀers students the opportunity to integrate and extend their understanding of the
various areas of theory, history, politics,
philosophy and policy studied as a Philosophy, Politics, and Economics Major.
2000 North Parkway  / Memphis, Tennessee 38112  / 800.844.5969  / 901.843.3000
Search terms or phrases
