home »general information published on rhodes college: rhodes catalogue (https://catalog.rhodes.edu/) general information printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/general-information the rhodes vision rhodes college aspires to graduate students with a life-long passion for learning, a compassion for others, and the ability to translate academic study and personal concern into effective leadership and action in their communities and the world. we will achieve our aspiration through four strategic imperatives: 1. student access to attract and retain a talented, diverse student body and engage these students in a challenging, inclusive and culturally broadening college experience. 2. student learning to ensure our faculty and staff have the talent, the time and the resources to inspire and involve our students in meaningful study, research and service. 3. student engagement to enhance student opportunities for learning in memphis. 4. student inspiration to provide a residential place of learning that inspires integrity and high achievement through its beauty, its emphasis on values, its presbyterian history, and its heritage as a leader in the liberal arts and sciences. rhodes college’s commitment to diversity a diverse learning community is a necessary element of a liberal arts education, for self- understanding is dependent upon the understanding of others. we, the members of rhodes college, are committed to fostering a community in which diversity is valued and welcomed. to that end, rhodes college does not discriminate – and will not tolerate harassment – on the basis of race, gender, color, age, religion, disability, sexual orientation, gender identity or expression, genetic information, and national or ethnicgeneral information https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/52 1 of 74 7/25/23, 12:53 pm origin. we are committed to providing an open learning environment. freedom of thought, a civil exchange of ideas, and an appreciation of diverse perspectives are fundamental characteristics of a community that is committed to critical inquiry. to promote such an academic and social environment we expect integrity and honesty in our relationships with each other and openness to learning about and experiencing cultural diversity. we believe that these qualities are crucial to fostering social and intellectual maturity and personal growth. intellectual maturity also requires individual struggle with unfamiliar ideas. we recognize that our views and convictions will be challenged, and we expect this challenge to take place in a climate of open-mindedness and mutual respect. revised july 2019 printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/general-information/rhodes-vision accreditation and general policies rhodes college is an accredited four-year college of liberal arts and sciences. with an endowment of $394 million and a physical plant valued at $575 million, the college has one of the largest investments per student ($482,000) in the nation. rhodes college is accredited by the southern association of colleges and schools - commission on colleges (sacs coc) to award baccalaureate and master's degrees. contact the commission on colleges at 1866 southern lane, decatur, georgia, 30033-4097 or call 404-679-4500 for questions about the accreditation of rhodes college. all potential substantive changes--whether proposed by students, faculty, staff, or board of trustees-- must be discussed with and reviewed by the sacs coc accreditation liaison, who is appointed by the rhodes college president. it is the responsibility of the sacs coc accreditation liaison to ensure that potential substantive changes are reported to, and approved by the sacs coc, prior to implementation. the purpose of this policy and procedures document is to comply with the substantive change for accredited institutions of the commission on colleges, policy statement, institutional obligations, item #2, that “member institutions are required to have a policy and procedure to ensure that all substantive changes are reported to the commission in a timely fashion” (p. 1). what is a substantive change? substantive change is a significant modification or expansion in the nature and scope ofgeneral information https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/52 2 of 74 7/25/23, 12:53 pm an accredited institution. under federal regulations, substantive change includes: • any change in the established mission or objectives of the institution • any change in legal status, form of control, or ownership of the institution • the addition of courses or programs that represent a significant departure, either in content or method of delivery, from those that were offered when the institution was last evaluated • the addition of courses or programs of study at a degree or credential level different from that which is included in the institution’s current accreditation or reaffirmation. • a change from clock hours to credit hours • a substantial increase in the number of clock or credit hours awarded for successful completion of a program • the establishment of an additional location geographically apart from the main campus at which the institution offers at least 50 percent of an educational program. • the establishment of a branch campus • closing a program, off-campus site, branch campus or institution • entering into a collaborative academic arrangement that includes only the initiation of a dual degree program or a joint degree program with another institution • acquiring another institution or a program or location of another institution • adding a permanent location at a site where the institution is conducting a teach-out program for a closed institution • entering into a contract by which an entity not eligible for title iv funding offers 25% or more of one or more of the accredited institution’s programs what are the procedures for reporting substantive change? sacs coc has identified three procedures for addressing the different types of substantive changes. these include: procedure one – for the review of substantive changes requiring notification and approval prior to implementation, procedure two – for the review of substantive changes requiring only notification prior to implementation, and procedure three – for closing a program, site, branch campus or institution. the different types of substantive change, the specific procedure to be used for each, their respective approval notification requirements, and their reporting time lines are included in the document “substantive change for accredited institutions of the commission on colleges - policy statement” located on pages 6-9 at: www.sacscoc.org/pdf/081705 /substantive%20change%20policy.pdf.general information https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/52 3 of 74 7/25/23, 12:53 pm procedures for the institutional changes such as mergers, acquiring or adding programs, or changes in governance or legal status can be found in a separate document, “mergers, consolidations, change of ownership, acquisitions, and change of governance, control, form, or legal status.” at: www.sacscoc.org/subchg/policy/mergers.pdf . the initiation or revision of programs not offered for academic credit and that are not eligible for federal financial aid does not require reporting: however, such programs are subject to review at the time of reaffirmation. identifying and reporting substantive change the president is responsible for: • submitting substantive change notification letters and associated documentation to the president of the sacs coc and providing a copy of the letters and documentation to the accreditation liaison or • designating the accreditation liaison as his representative to submit substantive change notification letters and associated documentation to the president of the sacs coc the president and vice presidents are responsible for: • informing relevant personnel under their supervision about the existence of the sacs coc policy on substantive change and the need to check with the accreditation liaison regarding any and all significant changes in policy to determine if they meet the criteria for a substantive change as defined in the policy • consulting with the college’s sacs coc accreditation liaison regarding questions about substantive changes within their divisions • providing sufficient time to notify the sacs coc prior to the implementation of any changes • assisting with the writing of appropriate documentation and notification of substantive changes as needed by the sacs coc the sacs coc accreditation liaison is appointed by the president and is responsible for: • staying up to date with the sacs coc substantive change policy statement • serving as the contact person and communication liaison between sacs coc staff and the college regarding substantive change matters • meeting with the president and vice presidents yearly to review the policy andgeneral information https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/52 4 of 74 7/25/23, 12:53 pm planned initiatives • working with the appropriate vice president to develop a plan of action and timeline for any substantive change actions requiring approval from the sacs coc • preparing substantive change prospectus in collaboration with the appropriate administrators and faculty • submitting substantive change notification letters and associated documentation to the president of the sacs coc as requested by the president • maintaining a database of substantive changes, initiatives, action plans and their status attendance at rhodes, a privately endowed college, is a privilege which may be forfeited at any time by any student who refuses or fails to conform to the regulations and standards of the college, or who is unwilling to adjust to the college’s traditions and environment. among these traditions are the honor system and the social regulations council that are administered by students and are described elsewhere in the catalogue. certain offenses and violations of college rules are considered serious enough to merit suspension or expulsion. additionally, the college reserves the right to suspend or expel any student, if, in the sole discretion of the administration, such suspension or expulsion is necessary to protect the best interests or welfare of the college, including the health and well-being of other students, faculty, or staff. rhodes welcomes applications for admission from all persons and does not discriminate on the basis of gender, race, color, age, religion, disability, sexual orientation, or national and ethnic origin in its admissions policies, loan programs, or other college educational programs, policies and activities. in compliance with section 504 of the rehabilitation act of 1973 and the americans with disabilities act of 1990, rhodes will make every reasonable effort to accommodate the needs of its students with disabilities. the information, policies, and procedures listed in this catalogue are current and up-to- date as of april 2022. policies stated in this catalogue are expected to be in effect through the academic year 2022-2023 but are subject to revision. normally, policy revisions are implemented in the next academic year, following notice thereof and are effective for all students who graduate in or after that academic year. however, occasionally a policy must be changed and implemented in the same academic year. in such cases, written notification of the revision will be mailed to all students currently enrolled. the faculty of rhodes college has the authority and the responsibility for establishing and maintaining those policies and procedures governing the academic standing of students at the college. any deviation from the policies and procedures stated in this catalogue relating to academic standing requires the prior formal approval of the faculty. a compendium of all current policies and procedures in regard to the college is maintained in the office of the president. printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/general-information/accreditation-and-general- policiesgeneral information https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/52 5 of 74 7/25/23, 12:53 pm admission application procedure an applicant who wishes to apply for admission to rhodes may do so any time after the end of his/her/their junior year in high school. applicants may apply using the common application ( www.commonapp.org ). no application fee is required for first-year or transfer students. admission to rhodes is competitive. in addition to the application for admission, first-year applicants must submit an official high school transcript, a secondary school report, a teacher evaluation, and a midyear report (regular decision only). applicants may provide standardized test scores (sat or act) which can be self-reported. in addition to submitting the same application supporting documents as all other first-year applicants, home-schooled applicants are strongly recommended to participate in an interview with an admission counselor and may submit the results of two sat subject tests from areas other than english or mathematics. the deadlines for submitting the application for admission and all supporting documents are referenced in the following early decision plans, early action plan, and regular decision plan sections. please note that all accepted applicants are automatically considered for competitive scholarships. transcripts and other documents required for admission become part of the permanent file of an enrolled student and cannot be returned or legally copied for the student or parent. the college is a member of the national association for college admission counseling (nacac) and endorses the principles contained in the association’s guide to ethical practice in college admission. admission selection process academic record. an applicant's academic record is of primary importance in the admission selection process. applicants must complete sixteen or more academic units in high school, including at least four years of english, two years of the same foreign language (classical or modern), two years of laboratory science and two years of history or social science. furthermore, applicants are expected to have completed the mathematics course sequence algebra i, geometry, and algebra ii or their equivalent. a fourth year of high school mathematics, including trigonometry and advanced algebra is especially important for students who plan to study mathematics, natural science, computer science, economics or business administration. applicants with slightly different high school curricula may be considered only if their records in other respects clearly indicate readiness for rhodes’ program of study. applicants are expected to havegeneral information https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/52 6 of 74 7/25/23, 12:53 pm received or be in the process of receiving a high school diploma or g.e.d. special note is taken in the decision making process of honors, advanced placement, international baccalaureate, cambridge, option international baccalaureate, accelerated or enriched courses. applicants who have taken college-level courses and wish to receive credit at rhodes for those courses should refer to “transfer credit” in the requirements for a degree section of this catalogue. standardized test scores. all applicants for admission have the option to submit standardized test scores, either act or sat. if planning to apply with a test score, it is advisable for the applicant to take the test in the junior year as a means of adjusting to this type of examination or for early decision, early action, or early admission purposes. any applicant who intends to submit scores as a regular decision applicant should take the test no later than december of the senior year so that their scores will be available to the admission committee by january 15. at the time of application, scores may be provided in the secondary school record, self-reported by applicants or received from the testing agency. test application forms may be obtained from high schools or by registering for them online at www.collegeboard.org (sat) or www.act.org (act). supporting documents. additional supporting documents will be considered when deciding on an applicant's admissibility to the college. these documents include a listing of extracurricular involvements, leadership positions or summer experiences, an application essay, a secondary school report, and a teacher’s evaluation. applicant interest. a visit to the rhodes campus (in addition to other demonstrations of interest) can be a deciding factor in making an admission decision. interest may also be demonstrated by meeting with an admission officer locally, virtually or personally corresponding with the office of admission. an applicant's ability to pay may be a deciding factor when considering applicants who rank within the lowest range of admissible students. the vice president for enrollment has the discretion to deny any application to rhodes college. applicants who wish to appeal their admission decision may do so by writing to the vice president for enrollment requesting reconsideration. campus visit and personal meeting a campus visit is the best way to experience life at rhodes. applicants are encouraged to visit between monday and friday so that, in addition to a personal meeting with an admission representative or information session and a campus tour, they may attend a class and meet faculty (during the academic year). general information https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/52 7 of 74 7/25/23, 12:53 pm virtual visits allow applicants to experience a campus tour, information session, and a meeting with an admission counselor, coach, or faculty member while being remote. the office of admission is open year round from 8:30 am to 5:00 pm monday through friday and on select saturdays. prospective applicants and applicants may arrange a campus visit online at www.rhodes.edu/visit . questions concerning a campus visit may be addressed to our campus visit coordinator at 1-800-844-5969 or, locally, 901-843-3700. early decision plans applicants who are certain they want to attend rhodes may wish to take advantage of either early decision i (ed i) or early decision ii (ed ii). under these plans, the applicant must submit an application for admission, high school transcript (including grades for the first marking period of the senior year), secondary school report, letters of recommendation, and the early decision agreement form by november 1 for early decision i or january 15 for early decision ii. standardized test scores may be submitted by the applicant for consideration. the applicant may apply to other colleges, but not under any other early decision plan. if accepted and provided adequate financial assistance, the applicant agrees to withdraw all applications submitted to other institutions, file no additional applications, and enroll at rhodes. typically, early decision applicants who wish to be considered for need-based financial aid must complete and submit the free application for federal student aid (fafsa) to the office of financial aid by november 1 for early decision i and november 15 for early decision ii in order to determine eligibility for non-federal financial assistance as well as for federal and/or state financial assistance. for the 2023-24 academic year, early decision i applicants will be required to submit the css profile light given the delayed launch and availability of the fafsa. applicants interested in receiving federal and state financial aid must submit the fafsa. under the early decision plans, the college agrees to render a decision on admission by november 15 for early decision i and february 1 for early decision ii. admitted applicants who are applying for need-based financial aid and have submitted the fafsa will be contacted by the office of financial aid concerning their request by december 1 for early decision i and february 1 for early decision ii. early decision is a binding agreement, designed for applicants for whom rhodes is their top college choice. if accepted under the early decision plan (and provided with financial assistance considered adequate by the applicant), the applicant is expected to submit the required deposit (as explained under enrollment deposit) by december 1 for early decision i and february 15 for early decision ii. offers of admission and financial aid to accepted applicants who do not enroll at the college will be rescinded.general information https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/52 8 of 74 7/25/23, 12:53 pm if a decision on the application cannot be reached, the applicant will be notified that the application will be deferred and guaranteed unbiased consideration under regular decision. early action plan applicants who wish to know of their admission decision earlier in the year but are not prepared to make an enrollment decision prior to may 1 may wish to apply under our early action plan. early action is an excellent option for applicants who are comfortable presenting their application earlier in the process. under this plan, the applicant must submit an application for admission, high school transcript, secondary school report, and letters of recommendation by november 15. optional standardized test scores, if submitted, must also be provided by november 15. early action applicants who wish to be considered for need-based financial aid must complete and submit the free application for federal student aid (fafsa) to the office of financial aid by november 15 in order to determine eligibility for non-federal financial assistance as well as for federal and/or state financial assistance. early action applicants will be required to submit the css profile light given the delayed launch and availability of the fafsa. applicants interested in receiving federal and state financial aid must submit the fafsa. under the early action plan, the office of admission will render an admission decision by january 15. applicants will be notified of any scholarships and/or need-based aid they are eligible to receive by january 15. admitted students have until may 1 to submit their enrollment deposit. for various reasons, the office of admission may choose to defer an application to regular decision. the applicant will be notified that the application will be deferred and reconsidered under regular decision. regular decision plan under this plan, applicants must submit an application for admission, high school transcript, secondary school report, and letters of recommendation by january 15. optional standardized test scores, if submitted, must be provided by january 15. regular decision applicants who wish to be considered for need-based financial aid must complete and submit the free application for federal student aid (fafsa) by january 15. under the regular decision plan, the office of admission will render an admission decision by april 1. applicants will also be notified of any scholarships and/or need-basedgeneral information https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/52 9 of 74 7/25/23, 12:53 pm aid they are eligible to receive by april 1. admitted applicants have until may 1 to submit their enrollment deposit. early admission plan high school students who wish to enroll at rhodes as degree-seeking students prior to completion of their secondary schooling may apply under the early admission plan. this option is provided for those students who have demonstrated exceptional ability and motivation in secondary school and are ready to experience the challenges of a college education earlier than normal. to be eligible for consideration, an applicant must submit an application for admission, a high school transcript including grades for five semesters of course work, a secondary school report, a teacher’s evaluation, sat or act test scores, and have a personal meeting with an admission representative. successful applicants will have satisfied rhodes’ general admission requirements, including the academic units requirements outlined under “admission selection process” above. normally, it will be necessary for an early admission applicant to enroll at a local college or university in the summer prior to their enrollment at rhodes in order to fulfill any academic requirements. early admission applicants must normally have the support of their secondary school counselor and of their parents or caregivers in order to be considered for admission under the plan. deferred enrollment applicants who have been admitted for admission and wish to delay their enrollment at rhodes for a semester or a year may request deferred enrollment by writing the dean of admission. the letter requesting deferred enrollment must indicate the length of time requested for deferral, the reason for requesting the deferral, and the proposed actions of the applicant during the time of the deferral. the dean of admission will respond to the deferral request in writing. if deferred enrollment is granted, the applicant must submit a nonrefundable $1,000.00 enrollment deposit to the office of admission. applicants who have been admitted from the wait list are typically not offered deferred enrollment. the vice president for enrollment may waive the increased enrollment deposit in certain cases. admitted applicants requesting deferral who have been awarded one of the college’s competitive scholarships or fellowships may retain the award. deferred applicants may not enroll in additional high school course work or in more than two college courses for credit in any one semester/term during their time of deferral. doing so nullifies their admission and scholarship offers (if any) and requires new admission and scholarship decisions to be rendered. applicants wishing to enroll in college courses aregeneral information https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/52 10 of 74 7/25/23, 12:53 pm advised to consult with the office of admission to ensure credit will transfer to rhodes. admission of transfer students rhodes welcomes applications from students who wish to transfer from other accredited colleges or universities. applicants who have enrolled in more than two courses in any one semester or term at another college or university are considered transfer students. applicants who have not graduated from high school, but have taken college course work, are not considered transfer students. a transfer applicant should go to www.commonapp.org to access the common app online for transfer students. the applicant should have official transcripts from his/her/their secondary school and all postsecondary institutions attended sent directly to the office of admission. submitting sat or act scores is optional. unofficial copies of transcripts and score reports may be accepted by the office of admission for review purposes, although official copies must be sent before an admitted applicant enrolls. transfer applicants must submit a college instructor evaluation, a college official’s report and a personal letter explaining the reason(s) for wanting to transfer to rhodes. transfer applicants who have previously applied for admission to rhodes may complete a reapply form in lieu of the common application and submit a final high school transcript, college transcript, college official's report and explanation of why they wish to transfer to be considered for admission. transfer applicants applying for january entrance must also submit a mid-semester grade report (available on www.rhodes.edu ) containing grade estimates from their professors. admission and scholarship decisions are made in the context of both the secondary and post-secondary academic record. prior college work is evaluated in light of rhodes’ established degree requirements. transfer applicants whose prior work is not compatible with a rhodes degree program may find it necessary to extend their college career in order to complete all requirements for a degree. rhodes’ admission policy is to only consider transfer applications from students who are in good standing at the last institution attended. those under academic or disciplinary suspension are not encouraged to apply to rhodes until eligible for readmission to the suspending institution. transfer from an unaccredited college requires a more thorough analysis of academic credentials. if accepted, the applicant will be placed on probationary status for one academic year and will be expected to maintain a record satisfactory to the faculty standards and standing committee. prospective applicants coming from colleges not accredited by a regional accrediting agency may find the acceptance of transfer credit to be very limited. for more information regarding the transfer of credit, see “transfer credit” in thegeneral information https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/52 11 of 74 7/25/23, 12:53 pm requirements for a degree section of this catalogue. admission of international students rhodes encourages international students living both abroad and in the united states to apply for admission. international students are those individuals who are not citizens or permanent residents (resident alien status) of the united states. in addition to those documents required of all first-year or transfer applicants, international applicants must have the official results of the test of english as a foreign language (toefl), the international english language testing system (ielts) or the duolingo english test (det) forwarded to the office of admission from the appropriate testing agency. the english proficiency exams are not required for native english-speaking applicants or if english is the primary language of instruction for at least two years of secondary school. international applicants may apply as test-optional and choose not to submit sat or act scores but must still submit toefl/ielts/det scores, as applicable. all transcripts must include a certified english translation. international applicants who have studied at other colleges or universities must have official transcripts from those institutions sent to rhodes. all international applicants must submit the rhodes financial supplement. it serves as the certification of finances which is required for issuance of a student visa from the united states government. international applicants may be eligible and competitive for merit- based scholarships ranging from us $12,000 to $40,000. rhodes strives to meet the demonstrated financial need of admitted international applicants. need-based financial aid for international applicants (non-u.s. citizens) is determined from the rhodes non-citizen financial supplement. aid is awarded in the form of grants or "gift" aid, which varies in dollar amounts according to each applicant's demonstrated financial need. admitted international applicants may also be considered for on-campus student employment. admission of special students (non-degree candidates) applicants who give evidence of sufficient academic ability may be admitted as special students to a course of study not leading directly to a degree, but allowing them to pursue that work for which they are best prepared and/or which they particularly need. special students may enroll in no more than two classes, or for no more than eight credits per semester. special students who wish to audit classes are limited to taking one course per semester. special students are not eligible to live in the residence halls or participate in intercollegiate athletics, fraternity or sorority membership, or other extracurricular activities. in addition, special students are not eligible for any rhodes or federal financialgeneral information https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/52 12 of 74 7/25/23, 12:53 pm aid funds. directed inquiries are not ordinarily available to special students. should a special student subsequently become a degree candidate, credits earned while a special student are applicable towards the degree sought. the deadline for submission of a special student application, including most recent transcript from high school or college, is two weeks prior to the beginning of a new semester/term. special student admission material is submitted only once. students who have attended rhodes as a special student and wish to continue their studies as a special student should report directly to rhodes express and register for classes during the first three days of a new semester/term. special students who have enrolled in two or more courses at another institution must reapply for special student status through the office of admission. a student seeking readmission as a special student will normally be held to the same academic standards as full-time, degree-seeking students at rhodes. special students are held to the same standards of academic progress regarding academic probation and suspension as degree-seeking students. readmission of students students who have voluntarily withdrawn from the college and have taken two courses or less in any one term at another institution, and students who have been academically suspended from rhodes and wish to return, must apply for readmission through the faculty standards and standing committee. returning students, including those who have already graduated from rhodes, must complete an application for readmission (obtained from the registrar’s office) which requests current information about the student, including an account of activities and educational experiences during the absence from rhodes. in many cases interviews with the dean of the faculty and the dean of students will be necessary to complete the readmission process. students seeking to be readmitted must initiate their requests at least two months prior to the beginning of a new semester. students who have voluntarily withdrawn from rhodes and have taken more than two courses in any one term or semester at another institution are considered transfer students. these students must apply for readmission to rhodes through the office of admission submitting the required applications and supporting documents. rhodes high school scholars program rhodes allows high school students who have demonstrated exceptional ability andgeneral information https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/52 13 of 74 7/25/23, 12:53 pm motivation to begin their college work while completing their secondary school course of study. such a student may enroll in up to two courses per semester at rhodes. to be eligible for consideration to the rhodes high school scholars program, an applicant must complete an admission application; have scored at least 1140 on the sat critical reading and math tests or 25 on the act; rank in the upper one-fifth of his/her/their class; have taken a very demanding course load, have a positive high school recommendation; and have a personal interview with an admission representative. course fees per credit hour are the same as special student tuition (see “special fees and deposits” in the expenses section). financial aid is typically not available for students participating in the program. participation in the high school scholars program will require coordination of the student’s college and high school course schedules. the office of admission will gladly assist the students, teachers, and counselors with these arrangements. advanced placement rhodes will typically grant course credit to entering students who score either 4 or 5 on a college board advanced placement examination. those who score 3 on an advanced placement examination may enroll in advanced course work if the relevant department recommends it. cambridge pre-u, cambridge a and as levels, international baccalaureate, and option international baccalaureate degree programs rhodes recognizes the cambridge pre-u, a-level and as-level exams, international baccalaureate, and option international baccalaureate academic programs and welcomes for review the submission of scores on these examinations. course credit is typically granted for examinations on each of these programs passed with sufficiently high scores: m3 or higher in cambridge pre-u principal subject: c or higher in cambridge a and as levels: 5, 6 or 7 in ib higher level; 13 or higher in oib. an ib score of 4 may qualify a student for advanced course work, subject to review by the appropriate academic department. a maximum combined total of thirty-two (32) credits may be earned through advanced placement, cambridge pre-u, international baccalaureate, and option international baccalaureate examinations. advanced placement, cambridge pre-u, international baccalaureate, and option international baccalaureate credit may not be used to satisfy rhodes’ foundation requirements except for scores in english and, in certain subjects, scores of 5 on ap exams, d3 or higher on cambridge pre-u exams, 6 or 7 on ib higher-level exams, and 16general information https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/52 14 of 74 7/25/23, 12:53 pm or higher on option international baccalaureate exams. all students must take the rhodes placement test in the appropriate language to determine proficiency and placement, including students who took an ap language exam in that language. for more information about advanced placement and international baccalaureate credit, go to this transfer credit equivalencies chart . an applicant, who has successfully completed advanced secondary school education, including the british advanced level examinations, the french baccalaureate, the german abitur, or the equivalent, may receive some advanced standing or transfer credit at rhodes for that work. such credit is not granted, however, until the applicant has enrolled at rhodes, at which time his/her/their credentials will be reviewed by the registrar and the academic departments in which the credit(s) will be applied. enrollment deposit in order to reserve a place in the class, all admitted applicants must submit a non- refundable $500.00 enrollment deposit to the college. mailed deposits must be postmarked no later than our deadline of may 1 (december 1 for early decision i; february 15 for early decision ii; june 15 for transfer students). the deposit is not an extra charge but is credited to the student’s account and deducted from other expenses. the balance of the first tuition, fees, room and board payment is due in early august. the college cannot guarantee that a residence hall room will be available unless this balance is paid at that time. orientation and registration all new students are expected to attend the open rhodes orientation program during the summer prior to enrollment and to be present for welcome week, which immediately precedes the opening of the college. orientation is designed to acquaint new students with the traditions, ideals, academic expectations, and regulations of rhodes and to give them an opportunity to plan their courses of study in consultation with members of the faculty. during orientation and welcome week, new students will also meet with the representatives of various student organizations, take placement tests, receive instruction in the use of the library, participate in social events and attend discussions with administrative officers of the college. additional information about the open rhodes summer orientation program is available online at https://rhodes.edu/admission- aid/admitted-students/summer-orientation . a complete medical examination and record of immunization are required of all full-time new students. this medical examination should take place prior to matriculation. the results of the examination along with immunization records, recorded on a form provided by the college, must be on file in the college student health center before registration. failure to provide the form may result in not being permitted to register and not beinggeneral information https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/52 15 of 74 7/25/23, 12:53 pm provided medical services until the form has been received. in the case of insufficient or missing medical data, the student may be granted provisional registration. proof of health insurance is required of all students. a copy of your insurance card will be requested with the completed health form. failure to provide proof of insurance may result in not being permitted to register and will result in not being provided medical services. additional information office of admission business hours are 8:30 a.m. to 5:00 p.m., monday through friday (central time). additional information is available upon request. contact: office of admission rhodes college 2000 north parkway memphis, tennessee 38112-1690 telephone: 901-843-3700 or toll-free 1-800-844-5969 fax: 901-843-3631 e-mail: adminfo@rhodes.edu online: rhodes.edu/admission printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/general-information/admission expenses the cost of an education at rhodes is of concern to students, their families, and to the college. rhodes has been able to hold charges for tuition, room, and board to about 75% of the total cost of a student’s education. the college’s success in annual fundraising and the substantial income derived from the endowment have enabled rhodes to hold costs below those at many comparable colleges. the tuition charge includes some services in the college health services center, admission to athletic events, and a wide range of activities sponsored by academic departments or the college at large. the student activity fee supports student publications and student organizations, as well as many college- sponsored social activities which are held throughout the year. a summary of costs for the 2023-2024 academic year is listed below; students should bear in mind that charges for textbooks and supplies are not included. semester year tuition (full time) 27,041.00 54,082.00 activity fee 155.00 310.00 health & wellness fee 250.00 500.00general information https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/52 16 of 74 7/25/23, 12:53 pm tuition refund plan coverage (resident) 437.00 tuition refund plan coverage (commuter) 354.00 education licensure tuition 7,500.00 study abroad program tuition, rhodes tuition only 27,041.00 study abroad program tuition, rhodes tuition & room only 30,784.00 study abroad program tuition, rhodes tuition, room, partial board32,032.00 study abroad program tuition, rhodes tuition, room, full board33,434.00 global ghana program 32,032.00 new york internship program 30,784.00 room type and meals per week standard multiple 15 meals per week 6,216.00 12,432.00 standard single 15 meals per week 6,846.00 13,692.00 standard multiple unlimited meals per week 6,455.00 12,910.00 standard single unlimited meals per week 7,085.00 14,170.00 east village a&b multiple 7 meals per week 5,913.00 11,826.00 east village a&b single 7 meals per week 6,217.00 12,434.00 east village a&b multiple 15 meals per week 7,176.00 14,352.00 east village a&b single 15 meals per week 7,480.00 14,960.00 east village a&b multiple unlimited meals per week 7,415.00 14,830.00 east village a&b single unlimited meals per week 7,719.00 15,438.00 west village/ev-c multiple 15 meals per week 6,994.00 13,988.00 west village/ev-c single 15 meals per week 7,360.00 14,720.00 west village/ev-c multiple unlimited meals per week 7,233.00 14,466.00 west village/ev-c single unlimited meals per week 7,599.00 15,198.00 east village c townhouse multiple 7 meals per week 5,822.00 11,644.00 east village c townhouse single 7 meals per week 6,157.00 12,314.00general information https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/52 17 of 74 7/25/23, 12:53 pm east village c townhouse multiple 15 meals per week 7,085.00 14,170.00 east village c townhouse single 15 meals per week 7,420.00 14,840.00 east village c townhouse multiple unlimited meals per week 7,324.00 14,648.00 east village c townhouse single unlimited meals per week 7,659.00 15,318.00 parkway/spann rm/bd multiple 7 meals per week 5,913.00 11,826.00 parkway/spann single 7 meals per week 6,217.00 12,434.00 parkway/spann multiple 15 meals per week 7,176.00 14,352.00 parkway/spann single 15 meals per week 7,480.00 14,960.00 parkway/spann multiple unlimited meals per week 7,415.00 14,830.00 parkway/spann single unlimited meals per week 7,719.00 15,438.00 commuter plan 5 meals per week 978.00 1,956.00 commuter plan 7 meals per week 1,351.00 2,702.00 commuter plan 15 meals per week 2,080.00 4,160.00 commuter plan unlimited meals per week 2,554.00 5,108.00 the regular college plan provides for payment of tuition and associated fees in two installments prior to the beginning of classes each semester. students are billed less deposits already made. if monthly payments are preferred by parents and/or guardians, rhodes allows such payments through nelnet. a link for enrolling in the monthly payment plan offered by nelnet will be included with the semester e-bill sent prior to each semester. if a monthly plan is chosen, arrangements should be made prior to the beginning of classes each semester. the college has also made arrangements with a.w.g. dewar, inc. to offer a tuition refund coverage plan to rhodes parents that will provide a refund in case of illness or accident causing the student to withdraw before the semester is completed. information concerning the tuition refund plan that details the protection provided and cost of the coverage will be provided to parents before the first payment is due. parents and students have the option of waiving the coverage prior to the beginning of the fall semester. regulations regarding billing and payment a bill for the tuition charge along with applicable room and board and other charges will begeneral information https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/52 18 of 74 7/25/23, 12:53 pm sent electronically before each semester to the student and those whom the student has set up as authorized payers. unless prior arrangements acceptable to the bursar of the college are made, a student’s account not paid in full prior to classes will be regarded as delinquent. a student whose account is delinquent will be denied the privileges of registration, attending classes, obtaining academic transcripts, using college facilities, or being admitted to graduation. students may enroll in courses totaling up to nineteen credit hours in each semester. students who receive permission to enroll in more than nineteen credit hours in a semester must pay the extra credit hour fee and exceptions are not made to this policy. once a student moves into a residence hall room, room and board charges for the full semester are due and payable on the student’s account. even if the student moves out of the room during the semester, the full room and board charges for that semester remain due on the student’s account. because of the high demand for college housing, the student who is not withdrawing from rhodes and is a resident only in the fall semester will be fined $500 if he/she is not moved out of the room by the day after the last final examination of the fall semester. students living in the residence halls are required to be on a meal plan. first-year students are assigned an unlimited meal plan. returning students may choose either the 15 meals per week dining plan or the unlimited, all-access dining plan. returning students living in east village a, east village b, east village c townhouses, parkway hall, or spann place also have the option of choosing the 7 meals per week dining plan. there are no exceptions to this policy. meals may be taken in either the burrow refectory or with a cash equivalency in the lynx lair. returning students are given the opportunity to choose the board plan they prefer prior to the start of the school year. board plan changes for returning students are accepted thru the end of the first week of classes each semester. non-resident students may purchase one of the commuter meal plan options by contacting rhodes express prior to the beginning of the semester. all students living in the residence halls must pay the full comprehensive tuition, regardless of the number of credit hours taken in the semester. if at some point it becomes necessary to turn the student account over for collection, the student will be required to reimburse the college the fees of any collection agency, which may be based on a percentage of the debt, and all costs and expenses, including reasonable attorney’s fees, incurred by the college in such collection efforts. withdrawal policy all requests for withdrawal must be initiated by the student through the office of studentgeneral information https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/52 19 of 74 7/25/23, 12:53 pm life. the official date of withdrawal will be the last day that the student attended class. once the bursar has received all the necessary information concerning the withdrawal, the financial accounts of the student will be settled based upon the policies below. involuntary withdrawals (i.e. suspensions or expulsions) are handled the same as voluntary withdrawals in that tuition and other fees remain due for the semester in which the suspension or expulsion occurs. tuition: if a student has attended classes, the full semester’s tuition is due and payable to the college regardless of the date of withdrawal, unless the student withdraws due to protracted illness or injury. should this illness be certified by a physician, psychologist, or other qualified professional that it prevents the completion of the semester’s academic work, a pro-rata charge for tuition will be made on the following basis (“days” is defined as days when classes are scheduled, i.e. five days per week). withdrawal datepro-rata semester tuition due (for medical reasons only) first 10 days of semester 25% 11th through 25th day 50% 26th through 35th day 75% after 35th day of semester 100% financial aid: rhodes financial aid remains credited to the account on the same basis as the charge for tuition above. when a student leaves the college, however, federal, state, and/or institutional financial aid funds may need to be returned to the entity providing the funding. the bursar will determine the amount of unearned financial aid received by the student. the return of those funds may create a balance due to the college, and it is the student’s responsibility to pay that balance. room and board: the full room and board charges for the semester remain due and payable for any semester the student occupies a residence hall room. the charges remain due regardless of the date or reason for withdrawal. there are no pro-rata refunds of room and board charges. health & wellness and activity fees: the full health & wellness and activity fee charges for the semester remain s due and payable for any semester the student attends classes, regardless of the date or reason for withdrawal. special fees and deposits enrollment deposit. $500.00. applies to incoming students only. the deposit, due by may 1, is non-refundable.general information https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/52 20 of 74 7/25/23, 12:53 pm open rhodes (orientation) fee. $200.00 part-time tuition (undergraduate non-resident degree candidates taking 11 credit hours or less or graduate non-resident degree candidates taking 7 credit hours or less). $2,315.00 per credit hour. special student tuition (students not seeking a degree at rhodes). $1,230.00 per credit hour. special student tuition, audit rate. $615.00 per credit hour. summer course tuition, 2023. $900.00 per credit hour. summer directed inquiry and internship tuition, 2023. $615.00 per credit hour. all students earning rhodes credit for directed inquiries and internships during the summer must be charged this rate in order to receive the credit. extra credit hour fee. $850.00 per credit hour. this fee is charged of degree-seeking students enrolling in more than nineteen (19) credits in a semester. applied music fee. students enrolled in applied music will be charged an additional fee of $490.00 per credit hour for private lessons. after the first applied music lesson, this applied lesson fee is nonrefundable. once declared, music majors will have the applied music fees waived for up to eight (8) credits of their principal applied instrument. music majors taking more than eight (8) credits of applied music and lessons taken prior to declaration of the major will be charged the applied fee for those credits. once declared, music minors will have the applied music fees waived for up to four (4) credits of applied music and lessons taken prior to declaration of the minor will be charged the applied fee for those credits. if a student fails to graduate as a music major or minor, the applied lesson fees that would have otherwise been assessed will be retroactively added to the student’s account. note: music talent award and fine arts award recipients' conditions for waivers of applied music fees are outlined in their award letters, which supersedes music major and minor fee waivers as contained here. extended living during winter recess fee (for certain dorms). $600.00 late registration fee. $50.00 late payment fee. $25.00general information https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/52 21 of 74 7/25/23, 12:53 pm key fob replacement fee. $25.00 student id card replacement fee. $10.00 printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/general-information/expenses financial aid financial aid rhodes invests substantial funds in institutional financial assistance to help make it possible for students who are admitted to the college to attend. currently, approximately 90% of rhodes students receive some form of federal, state, institutional, or outside financial assistance, with total assistance amounting to over $100 million. most aid awarded by the college is offered as a combination of grant, loan and student employment. rhodes takes full advantage of the available federal and state financial assistance programs when awarding financial aid to students. additionally, through the generosity of loyal alumni and other friends of the college, rhodes students benefit from a generous competitive fellowship and scholarship program. general policies • the office of financial aid will communicate with students primarily via the rhodes- assigned student email address. it is the student's responsibility to communicate with parents concerning financial aid award information, requirements, etc. a student may not receive aid (scholarships, fellowships and/or grants) in excess of the total cost of attendance at rhodes (tuition, fees, housing, food as well as an estimated allowance for books, transportation, and personal/living expenses). if the total amount of aid from all sources (rhodes federal, state, private) exceeds rhodes’ total cost of attendance, aid will be reduced accordingly. • in general, information about the student's financial aid award(s), requirements for completing the financial aid process, cost of attendance, etc. may be found on lynxpartner. the office of financial aid does not mail paper award letters or documents to rhodes students' home address. updated awards are made available via banner web self-service in march of each year. • the total amount of rhodes-funded gift aid (scholarships, fellowships and/or grants) a student is eligible to receive may not exceed rhodes' direct cost of attendance (tuition, fees, food and/or housing). if the total amount of rhodes-funded gift aid exceeds the direct cost of attendance, a portion of the rhodes gift aid will be reduced accordingly. • rhodes scholarships, fellowships and grants are based on a normal course load (12general information https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/52 22 of 74 7/25/23, 12:53 pm - 18 credits under the foundations curriculum). additional costs incurred by a student taking an overload will be incurred at that student’s expense. • rhodes scholarships, fellowships and grants are based on a normal course load of 12 - 18 credits under the foundations curriculum). additional costs incurred by a student taking an overload will be incurred at that student’s expense. • rhodes scholarships, fellowships and grants are provided only to students enrolled full-time (at least 12 credits) as of the last day of the extended drop period. seniors who need less than twelve (12) credits to graduate in their final semester are not exempt from this policy. • institutional funds will be awarded for each classification year (i.e. first-year, sophomore, etc.) only once. a maximum of two semesters of assistance will be awarded for any classification. exceptions to this may be made by formal approval by the accessibility support committee. • students, who graduate early because of overloads, summer course work, etc., forfeit aid for the semester(s) not enrolled. students who accept/decline financial aid awards via lynxpartner are electronically signing their award and agree to the terms of the financial aid package as listed in the rhodes college catalogue, in other rhodes publications, and on the rhodes website • the following are the definitions for enrollment status for financial aid, including rhodes scholarships, fellowships and grants ◦ full time: 12 credits or greater ◦ ¾ time: 9-11credits ◦ ½ time: 6-8 credits definitions • cost of attendance (coa): this includes tuition, fees, estimated housing and food, estimated cost of books, estimated personal/living costs and estimated transportation costs). the term “direct coa” only includes tuition and fees. room and board is included as "direct coa" only for students who reside at or have purchased a meal plan through rhodes college. when calculating rhodes scholarships or grants based on tuition, fees, and room and board, the amount used for room is the average amount charged by the college for a student at the multiple occupancy rate for that dorm; the amount used for board is the current on-campus 21-meal plan rate. • expected family contribution (efc ): the minimum amount a family is expected to contribute for the student’s education for a given academic year. the efc is calculated by the fafsa and the css profile and assumes families will finance education utilizing current income, past savings, and student and/or parental borrowing. • demonstrated need : the difference between the coa and the efc. • free application for federal student aid (fafsa ): a financial aid application used in awarding federal and state grants, scholarships, and loans and studentgeneral information https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/52 23 of 74 7/25/23, 12:53 pm employment. • institutional supplemental application: may be completed in place of the css profile to determine rhodes grant funding. only needed first year. • css profile : a financial aid application used by rhodes to determine rhodes grant funding. the css profile is a product of the college board. • satisfactory academic progress (sap): federal and institutional requirement that students consistently progress toward completion of a degree; includes gpa and earned hours measured at the end of each academic year. financial aid application procedures for prospective students all prospective students who want consideration for federal, state, and institutional assistance, including early decision applicants, must complete the fafsa to receive federal and/or state aid. failure to complete the fafsa will result in the reduction or elimination of awarded federal aid. the title iv code for rhodes to receive fafsa results is 003519. all prospective students who want consideration for institutional financial assistance, including early decision applicants, must complete the css profile or the institutional supplemental application to receive institutional grant funding. failure to complete one of these applications may result in the reduction or elimination of awarded institutional aid. the code for rhodes to receive the css profile results is 1730. submit the css profile ( https://cssprofile.collegeboard.org ) or institutional supplemental application (student portal) and/or the fafsa ( www.fafsa.gov ) by the following dates, according to admission plan: • ◦ early decision - november 1 ◦ early action - november 15 ◦ early decision ii - january 15 ◦ regular decision - january 15 notification of financial aid awards for admitted applicants are as follows: • ◦ early decision - beginning november 15 ◦ early decision ii - notified on a rolling basis beginning november 29 ◦ early action applicants - january 15 ◦ regular decision - march 15 financial aid application procedures for transfer studentsgeneral information https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/52 24 of 74 7/25/23, 12:53 pm a student transferring to rhodes who is seeking financial assistance must submit a css profile ( https://cssprofile.collegeboard.org ) or institutional supplemental application by march 1 and a valid fafsa ( www.fafsa.gov ) by march 1 in order to determine financial need for the upcoming year. a transfer student shall be eligible for all forms of financial aid (except bellingrath fellowships, bonner scholarships, acs and day scholars) provided: • the student’s previous college academic record is commensurate with the requirements for the award (a 3.50 minimum grade point average is required for a hon scholarship and a 3.75 minimum grade point average is required for any scholarships or fellowships of greater value such as morse and cambridge scholarships). • the student would have been awarded the award had the student entered rhodes during the first year in college. note: the number of semesters for which a transfer student may receive rhodes-funded aid is based on the classification of the student upon enrollment. for example, if a transfer student enrolls at rhodes as a sophomore, that student may receive rhodes-funded aid for a total of six (6) semesters. a student enrolling as a junior may receive rhodes-funded aid for a total of four semesters, and so forth. financial aid application procedures for currently enrolled/returning students currently enrolled/returning students who wish to continue eligibility for federal financial aid and for the tennessee education lottery scholarships (tels) and the tn state grants (for tennessee residents) must complete the fafsa. rhodes encourages students to complete the renewal fafsa as soon as possible prior to march 1. returning tennessee students who qualified for the state grant (tsaa) in previous years must complete the fafsa by february 1 to be considered for renewal. the department of education will send fafsa renewal notices to students in october of each year via email. returning students who are reapplying for financial aid do not need to resubmit the css profile or the institutional supplemental application. financial aid awards if the results of the fafsa reveal that a student has a financial need, rhodes generally offers the student a financial aid award that consists of gift aid (federal and state grants) and self-help (loans and student employment). rhodes funds, federal funds, state funds and funds provided to the student through outside organizations are all considered a part of the need-based financial aid package and are applied to need first, per federal regulations. the need-based programs commonly available at rhodes are listed below.general information https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/52 25 of 74 7/25/23, 12:53 pm • institutional grants ◦ rhodes grant: rhodes grants are considered need-based awards. rhodes uses this funding to meet need and/or to offer assistance based on the overall characteristics of students who show promise of success at rhodes as well as the ability and desire to take full advantage of all rhodes has to offer. the annual value of a student’s rhodes grant remains constant throughout the student’s tenure at rhodes. exceptions to this are within the purview of the financial aid office in response to extreme increases in demonstrated financial need documented through the completion of the special circumstance request and other supporting documents that may be required. ◦ rhodes on-campus housing grant: this need based grant is awarded to offset direct costs associated with living in on campus housing. a student who chooses to live off campus may no longer be eligible to receive this grant. however, this grant may be used to offset the cost of a meal plan up to the amount of the initial rhodes on campus housing grant for students who have satisfied their three-year residency requirements. students who request an appeal to move off campus prior to completing the three-year requirement will no longer qualify for this grant. ◦ ministerial grant: as a church-related college, rhodes will assist children of presbyterian church (u.s.a.) ministers with a $1,000 ministerial grant above any rhodes grant or scholarship previously awarded. dependents of pcusa ministers should indicate their interest in the ministerial grant on the rhodes part i application for admission/common application supplement. • federal grants ◦ federal pell grant: the federal government provides direct assistance to eligible students through the federal pell grant program. eligibility for the federal pell grant is determined by the results of the fafsa. ◦ federal supplemental educational opportunity grant (seog): federal supplemental educational opportunity grants are awarded by rhodes to pell grant recipients showing exceptional financial need, and are in addition to the pell grant. seog funds are limited and are awarded until funds are exhausted. • tennessee state awards: ◦ tennessee student assistance award (tsaa): students who are residents of tennessee apply for the tsaa via the fafsa. to be eligible, a student must have: ▪ graduated from a tennessee highschool ▪ been a continuous resident of tennessee for the twelve-month period preceding the start of the academic year for which the grant is made. ▪ an efc of or below $5846 (subject to change per state funding). ◦ in addition:general information https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/52 26 of 74 7/25/23, 12:53 pm ▪ returning students wishing to renew the award must complete the fafsa before february 1 remain eligible. further information may be obtained from the tennessee student assistance corporation. the state of tennessee is the final authority on eligibility for the program. rhodes is not responsible for replacing lost state grant funding. ▪ contact: phone: ( 800) 342-1663 or (615) 741-1346, website: www.tn.gov/collegepays.html ◦ tennessee education lottery scholarship program (tels): the tels program includes the hope scholarship, the general assembly merit scholarship (gams), the aspire award and the ned mcwherter scholarship (all detailed below). the state of tennessee offers scholarships of up to $7500 for tennessee residents who attend an approved college or university in tennessee. tels funding requires the submission of the fafsa and must be completed by state-established deadlines as indicated on the fafsa website at www.fafsa.gov. recipients of the tels who begin enrollment in any term as a full-time student must maintain full-time status throughout the semester to continue receiving this award. exceptions to this rule must be approved by the standards and standing committee prior to the student’s dropping below full- time status. only medical and family emergency issues are considered for exceptions. recipients of the tels must complete the fafsa every year by the state-established deadline as printed on the fafsa. the state of tennessee is the final authority on eligibility for the program. rhodes is not responsible for replacing lost state grant funding. information on all requirements for the tels program may be found at www.tn.gov/collegepaystn.html. ◦ hope scholarship: awarded $4500 for years one and two; $5700 for years three and four. students must maintain a minimum 2.75 gpa during the first 48 credit hours earned and 3.0 subsequent terms until graduation. the hope scholarship is awarded for up to 5 years or until a student receives their bachelor's degree, whichever comes first. students who start the semester as a full-time student must remain full time throughout the semester, or they will no longer be eligible for the hope scholarship. tennessee residents eligible for the hope scholarship, who start the semester as a part time student, may be eligible for a prorated hope award if they remain enrolled at least half-time throughout the entire semester. students enrolled a minimum of 6 hours over the summer may be eligible to receive a hope award. ▪ aspire award : an additional $1500 is awarded to hope scholarshipgeneral information https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/52 27 of 74 7/25/23, 12:53 pm recipients whose family reports an adjusted gross income of $36,000 or less. ▪ general assembly merit scholarship (gams) supplement : an additional $1000 is available to hope scholarship recipients based on academic performance in high-school. students must have scored a minimum of 29 on the act (or equivalent score on sat) and a minimum 3.75 final gpa based on uniform grading policy. students must be hope eligible and not qualify for the aspire award. ▪ ned mcwherter : a $3000 competitive scholarship awarded to entering freshman who scored a minimum of 29 on the act (or equivalent sat score) and a minimum 3.5 final gpa based on uniform grading policy. a 3.2 gpa must be maintained in college for renewal up to 8 consecutive terms. applications available at www.tn.gov/collegpays /student_portal.htm ▪ tn teaching scholars program and minority teaching fellows program: a state teaching service loan forgiveness program with an employment obligation. applicants must follow program guidelines or award becomes a loan that must be repaid. this may be awarded to junior, senior or graduate students admitted to the teacher education program. applicants cannot be licensed teachers or receive the scholarship while employed or previously employed in teaching positions. award may be up to $5000 per year. students must maintain a minimum 2.75 to retain. application for both programs at www.tn.gov/collegepays /student_portal.htm ▪ ◦ seb scholarship: a scholarship for students who are residents of the following counties in tennessee: bradley, hamilton, knox, loudon, mcminn, meigs, putnam, or rhea county, typically one southeast bank (seb) scholarship is awarded biannually. students are nominated by the financial aid office and selection of scholarship is based on the student’s community service/leadership record, academic achievements and financial need. the seb scholarship has a stipend of $7,000 per year for four years and will be renewed yearly as long as the recipient remains a full-time student at rhodes and maintains a 2.5 grade point average. the scholarship is funded by southeast bank located in knoxville, tn. • loans ◦ federal direct student loan program: these federal loans are available as follows: ▪ $5,500 are available to first-year undergraduate students ▪ $6,500 upon earning 30 credits for the sophomore yeargeneral information https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/52 28 of 74 7/25/23, 12:53 pm ▪ $7,500 upon earning 63 credits and for each of the remaining years of undergraduate study. federal direct loans are either subsidized or unsubsidized: ◦ ▪ subsidized: the federal government pays the interest while the student is enrolled in an eligible institution on at least a half-time basis. ▪ unsubsidized: the student is responsible for interest payment while enrolled at least half-time. repayment details for both subsidized and unsubsidized loans: ◦ ▪ repayment begins six months after the student graduates or ceases to be enrolled at least half-time. ▪ the standard repayment period is ten years, and the interest rate for loans borrowed in a given year are fixed by the doe annually for both subsidized federal direct loans and unsubsidized federal direct loans. ▪ this rate may change on july 1st each year as determined by federal appropriations. ◦ federal direct unsubsidized loan for graduate students: these federal loans are available to students pursuing a graduate degree at rhodes. the annual loan limit for a graduate or professional student is $20,500. the interest rate changes each july 1 as determined by federal appropriations. the current interest rate can be found at https://studentaid.gov/understand-aid/types/loans /interest-rates ◦ federal direct parent loan for undergraduate students (plus) program: the parent of an undergraduate student may be eligible to borrow the cost of education at rhodes less any financial assistance the student receives each year for educational expenses. plus applicants are subject to credit approval. the interest rate changes each july 1st as determined by federal appropriations. the current interest rate can be found at https://studentaid.gov /understand-aid/types/loans/interest-rates. ◦ federal direct grad (plus) program: a student enrolled in a graduate program may be eligible to borrow the cost of education at rhodes less any financial assistance the student receives each year for educational expenses. plus applicants are subject to credit approval. the interest rate changes each july 1 as determined by federal appropriations. the current interest rate can be found at https://studentaid.gov/understand-aid/types/loans/interest-rates. ◦ federal teach grant (loan) program: the teach grant program provides grants of up to $4,000 a year to students who are completing or plan togeneral information https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/52 29 of 74 7/25/23, 12:53 pm complete course work needed to begin a career in teaching. offered only to juniors, seniors or graduate students, teach grant recipients must sign a teach grant agreement to teach for a minimum of four years in a high-need field at an elementary, secondary or educational service agency that serves low income families. teaching must begin within eight years of graduating in a specific course of study. recipients of the teach grant who do not meet the requirements of their service obligation, will have all teach grants converted to direct unsubsidized loans . loans must be repaid in full, with interest charged from the date each teach grant was released to the student’s account. for more information go to: https://studentaid.ed.gov/sa/types/grants- scholarships/teach#terms ◦ other loans ▪ student loan of the presbyterian church (u.s.a.): up to $1,000 annually may be borrowed from the student loan fund administered by the general mission board on behalf of the presbyterian church. the student must have been a member of the denomination continuously for at least one year immediately preceding the date of application. evidence of financial need is required. students interested in this loan should address all communications to: presbyterian church (u. s. a. office of financial aid for studies 100 witherspoon street louisville, ky 40202-139 telephone: (888) 728-7228 http://www.pcusa.org/financialaid (http://www.pcusa.org/financialaid) • ◦ ▪ private loans rhodes students and parents often wish to borrow non- federal educational loans, called "private loans" (also known as alternative loans), to help with college expenses. numerous lending institutions offer private educational loans, which may be combined with federal loans up to the cost of attendance. rhodes maintains a historical lenders’ list, which includes private educational loans that our students have used over the past five (5) years. please note that this list is notgeneral information https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/52 30 of 74 7/25/23, 12:53 pm inclusive, ordered by preference, or an endorsement of any specific lender. fastchoice | home (fastproducts.org) if you have questions, please contact: office of financial aid phone: 901-843-3278 (local) 800-844-5969 (toll-free) email: finaid@rhodes.edu student employment student employment programs at rhodes include the student employment program @ rhodes (se@r) and the rhodes student associate program (rsap). when an offer of student employment of any type is extended by the college and accepted by the student, this offer does not guarantee that the student will earn the full amount awarded. the student will be paid only for the hours worked, as the award amount represents maximum gross wages a student may earn. earnings are paid directly to the student; they are not credited to the student’s account in the bursar’s office. to begin work, a student employee must have submitted an i-9 and a w-4 form to the college. these documents may be submitted to rhodes express with proper identification for processing. ◦ student employment program @ rhodes (se@r) has two options based on financial need: ▪ federal student employment program (fws): through the federal student employment program, part-time employment is offered to students to help them meet their financial need. a student may work for no less than the prevailing minimum wage rate for an average of ten (10) hours per week while enrolled as a regular student during the academic year. ▪ rhodes student employment program (cce): employment on the campus may be offered through the rhodes student employment program to students who do not demonstrate financial need. in these cases, employment will be offered only after those commitments made to students eligible for the fws program (described above) are honored. students in this category (no demonstrated need) who desire employment on campus should contact the financial aid office. a student may work for no less than the prevailing minimum wage rate for an average of ten (10) hours per week while enrolled as a regular student during the academic year and for as many as thirty-five (35) hours per week during the summer. ◦ rhodes student associate program (rsap): rsap provides enhanced employment opportunities for a select group of highly qualified , highly motivated rhodes students who collaborate with specifically chosengeneral information https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/52 31 of 74 7/25/23, 12:53 pm faculty/administrator supervisors to provide valuable, meaningful service to both the student and the college. employment may be offered on a part-time basis regardless of financial need. a student may apply for rsap beginning in the fall of their freshman year as applications become available. a student must work between ten (10) and fifteen (15) hours per week during the academic year and maintain a minimum 2.75 cumulative grade point average. summer employment is not available in this program. a student may not hold another job on campus in conjunction with their rsa position including the bonner and day fellowships. scholarships and fellowships financial need is not a consideration in awarding scholarships and fellowships at rhodes, with the exception of the bonner scholarship. federal regulations, however, do require that any assistance, including scholarships and fellowships, first apply towards the demonstrated need when awarding need-based aid. rhodes’ scholarships and fellowships are awarded only to entering students at the time of admission. returning students not initially offered a competitive scholarship or fellowship will not be considered for a competitive scholarship or fellowship at a later time. returning students who have been awarded a competitive scholarship or fellowship will not be considered for scholarships or fellowships of greater value as they progress through rhodes. all qualified applicants are automatically considered for rhodes' scholarships and fellowships, unless a separate application is required and specified. please note: a description of our broader fellowship program, which provides opportunities for research, service, creative activities, internships and study abroad during the academic year and over the summer can be found in the opportunities for individualized study section of this catalogue. many of these opportunities include stipends. ◦ scholarships scholarships are awarded on the basis of a candidate’s academic record, leadership, character, and personal achievements. competitive scholarships may be renewed for a maximum of three renewals provided the student meets the financial aid satisfactory academic progress standards, enrolled in undergraduate program and maintains the gpa requirements of the scholarship; however, the student must maintain full-time student status (at least 12 credits) through the extended drop period of each semester. the total amount of rhodes-funded scholarships, fellowships and grants may not exceed direct charges of tuition, fees, room, and board. students receiving institutional aid in excess of tuition will be subject to a reduction if they live off campus. rhodes funds are not available to students enrolledgeneral information https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/52 32 of 74 7/25/23, 12:53 pm less than full-time (at least 12 credits) unless an exception is formally approved by the accessibility support committee (see reduced course load). rhodes scholarships, fellowships, and grants may only be used for study at rhodes or for approved study in an affiliate study abroad program. rhodes institutional aid may be received up to (8) semesters as long as the student meets the sap standards for renewal of financial aid and, for competitive scholarships and fellowships, maintains the required gpa scholarships are awarded to entering students based on the candidate’s academic record, leadership, character, and personal achievements include: ◦ morse ◦ cambridge ◦ ralph c. hon ◦ diehl ◦ dean's ◦ presidential ◦ rhodes awards dean’s scholarships are awarded to outstanding entering students who exemplify high academic standards, exemplify leadership in their community, and diversify the cultural demography of the college. ◦ fellowships (a description of our broader fellowship program can be found in the opportunities for individualized study section of the catalogue.) • at rhodes, we have taken traditional scholarships a step further by allowing students to invest in themselves through professional internships, community service, research or other requirements in exchange for financial assistance. in addition to funding, recipients of fellowships receive real-world experience that puts their education into action. competitive fellowships for incoming students are awarded to students based on academic ability, leadership, character, personal achievement, or special talents and provide service, research, or internship opportunities to recipients. most fellowships require the submission of a separate application through the fellowships office.general information https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/52 33 of 74 7/25/23, 12:53 pm fellowships may be renewed for up to three times provided the student meets the financial aid satisfactory academic progress standards, the gpa requirements of the fellowship, and the service, internship, research, or other requirements of the fellowship. in addition, the student must maintain full-time student status (at least 12 credits) through the extended drop period of each semester to continue to receive the fellowship. the total amount of rhodes-funded scholarships, fellowships and grants may not exceed tuition, fees, room and board. rhodes funds are not available to students enrolled less than full-time (at least 12 credits) unless an exception is formally approved by student accessibility services (see student accessibility services). rhodes scholarships, fellowships, and grants may only be used for study at rhodes or for approved rhodes affiliate study abroad program. rhodes institutional aid may be received up to (8) semesters as long as the student meets the sap standards for renewal of financial aid and, for competitive scholarships and fellowships, maintains the required gpa. ◦ ▪ walter d. bellingrath fellowships: bellingrath fellowships receive a stipend equal to the full cost of tuition at rhodes, are awarded to the college’s most outstanding first-year students. ▪ fine arts fellowships: fine arts fellowships are made each year to entering students who have demonstrated outstanding achievement in the areas of art or music. auditions are required in music, and art requires the submission of slides. the fine arts fellowships are valued up to $12,500 per year. if a student qualifies for a fine arts fellowship and another competitive scholarship or fellowship, only one scholarship or fellowship (whichever is greater) will be awarded. winners of these fellowships are required to major or minor in a fine arts discipline while at rhodes. ▪ spencer fellowships in ancient mediterranean studies: spencer fellowships are awarded to first-year students who have distinguished themselves in the study of latin, ancient greek or the civilizations of ancient greece and rome. each year, up to three spencer fellowships are awarded in the amount of $2,000 to $3,000 in addition to any other rhodes grant or fellowship received. the fellowships are renewable for three years provided the student meets the financial aid satisfactory academic progress standards, maintains a 2.75 cumulative gpa, and participates in the ancient mediterranean studies program. ▪ jack h. taylor fellowship in physics: the taylor fellowship in physics recognizes talented high school physics students and encourages their continued college development in physics. the fellowship is valued up to $15,000 per year based on the qualifications of the recipient and is in addition to any other rhodes grant or fellowship the student may receive. at least one fellowship will be awarded to a first-year student each year.general information https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/52 34 of 74 7/25/23, 12:53 pm ▪ bonner scholarships: the bonner scholarships are for students who have demonstrated an exceptional record of leadership and service participation in their communities and who wish to become effective leaders who promote positive change in the world. the bonner scholarships are awarded on a competitive basis and support fifteen first- year students who have competitive sat or act scores, a strong high school record, and demonstrate an outstanding record of leadership, community service and/or social justice work. to be eligible, the student’s family must have a federal expected family contribution (efc) below $10,500 (exceptions may be made for outstanding candidates). scholarships plus stipend are valued at $13,000 are in addition to any rhodes scholarship the student may receive during the standard academic year. in addition to the award amount, the student’s financial need to cover direct costs is met with scholarship, grant, and subsidized loan. unsubsidized loans may be offered to assist with indirect costs or offset calculated family contribution. bonner scholars are also awarded funding for two summer service projects, access to a community fund to support service projects, and up to $3,000 for the purpose of reducing total educational loan indebtedness upon graduation from rhodes. the total amount of rhodes-funded scholarships, including bonner scholarship, bonner stipend, rhodes fellowships and rhodes grants may not exceed direct charges of tuition, fees, room and board. students receiving institutional aid in excess of tuition will be subject to a reduction if they live off campus. ▪ clarence day scholarship: day scholarships are made each year to entering students who are from shelby county and who have demonstrated a strong interest in the memphis community. students must have a strong academic record and have intentions of staying in memphis after graduation. the scholarship is renewable for three years provided the student meets the renewal criteria. the scholarship is valued at $35,000 per year and an opportunity for a one-time fellowship experience with a stipend of $5,000. applicants must apply and meet all deadlines to be considered for this scholarship. in addition to the award amount, a student’s financial need to cover direct costs is met with scholarship, grant, and work. loans may be offered to assist with indirect costs or offset calculated family contribution. the total amount of rhodes-funded scholarships, including day scholarship, rhodes fellowships and rhodes grants may not exceed direct charges of tuition, fees, room, and board. students receiving institutional aid in excess of tuition will be subject to a reduction if they live off campus. ▪ jewish community fellowship: awarded through partnership with jewish community partners (jcp) of memphis. jewish communitygeneral information https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/52 35 of 74 7/25/23, 12:53 pm fellows receive a merit scholarship between $2500 and $10,000, dependent on other combined aid, and renewable for up to 3 years. jewish community fellows are expected to be active in jewish life at rhodes and fulfill the following requirements: ▪ complete an annual fellowship recertification form ▪ make a presentation to jewish community partners board ▪ write a yearly article about jewish life ▪ attend monthly leadership meetings with other fellows ▪ attend rhodes hillel events/programs ◦ other scholarships and awards ▪ rhodes college-sponsored national merit scholarships: awards sponsored by rhodes may be offered to first-year students who are designated as finalists in the national merit scholarship competition and who have designated rhodes as their first choice. recipients may not receive other national merit scholarships. these awards are valued at $1500 beginning with the incoming class of 2020-2021. they are renewable for three years provided the student meets the financial aid satisfactory academic progress standards. ▪ chicago scholars program award: chicago scholar program recipients receive institutional aid up to a student’s financial need to cover direct costs with scholarship, grant, subsidized loans and work. unsubsidized loans may be offered to assist with indirect costs or offset calculated family contribution. the total amount of rhodes-funded scholarships, including day scholarship, rhodes fellowships and rhodes grants may not exceed direct charges of tuition, fees, room, and board. students receiving institutional aid in excess of tuition will be subject to a reduction if they live off campus. ▪ yes prep scholars program award: yes prep program recipients receive institutional aid up to a student’s financial need to cover direct costs with scholarship, grant, subsidized loans and work. unsubsidized loans may be offered to assist with indirect costs or offset calculated family contribution. the total amount of rhodes-funded scholarships, including day scholarship, rhodes fellowships and rhodes grants may not exceed direct charges of tuition, fees, room, and board. students receiving institutional aid in excess of tuition will be subject to a reduction if they live off campus. ▪ the presbyterian partnership: because rhodes shares an important relationship with the presbyterian church (u.s.a.), a special scholarship program, called the presbyterian partnership, has been established. through this program rhodes seeks to strengthen its ties with the church and to help students obtain the distinctive and high quality educationgeneral information https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/52 36 of 74 7/25/23, 12:53 pm available at rhodes. in the program, the session of a presbyterian church may nominate a student to receive a partnership grant of $1,000, $2,000 or $4,000. the church contributes one-half of the partnership grant to rhodes, and the college supplies the other half and applies the total to the student’s account. any institutional grant or scholarship previously awarded the recipient by rhodes will be used to match the church’s portion of the scholarship (i.e. no additional grant or scholarship aid will be awarded). eligibility requirements for a partnership scholarship are: ▪ interested students should contact their pastor or clerk of session to see if their church is willing to enter into a partnership agreement with rhodes. if the church wishes to participate, the church should write a letter to the rhodes college office of financial aid specifying the annual amount of the presbyterian partnership it wishes to partner with rhodes. ▪ the recipient must meet all requirements for admission to rhodes as a full-time student and maintain satisfactory academic progress at all times ▪ only first-year students and transfer students are eligible for an initial partnership scholarship. ▪ the student must be nominated by the session of a local presbyterian church (u.s.a). ▪ for further information about the presbyterian partnership program, contact the financial aid office. ▪ national presbyterian college scholarships: rhodes participates in the national presbyterian college scholarship program. rhodes may co- sponsor one award each year to an entering first-year student. this award, based on financial need and ranging in value from $700 to $1,400, is renewable for up to three additional years provided the student meets the financial aid satisfactory academic progress standards. the national presbyterian college scholarship selection committee will determine the winner from those applicants who indicate on the application that rhodes is their first choice among the participating presbyterian colleges. application forms may be obtained from and must be returned by january 31 to: national presbyterian college scholarships presbyterian church (u.s.a.) financial aid for studies 100 witherspoon street mezzanine louisville, ky 40202-1396general information https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/52 37 of 74 7/25/23, 12:53 pm http://www.pcusa.org/financialaid ◦ ▪ american field service returnee scholarships: rhodes will provide up to five (5) afs returnee scholarships valued at $500 per year and renewable for up to three additional years provided the student meets the financial aid satisfactory academic progress standards. the scholarships are available on a competitive basis to any afs returnee who is offered admission to the college. ▪ hoby scholarships: these scholarships are available on a competitive basis to any participant in a hoby seminar who is offered admission to the college. the scholarship is valued at $500 per year and is renewable for three years provided the student meets the financial aid satisfactory academic progress standards. a maximum of five (5) hoby scholarships will be awarded each year. ▪ youth for understanding scholarships: rhodes will provide up to five (5) yfu scholarships per year valued at $500 and renewable for three additional years provided the student meets the financial aid satisfactory academic progress standards. the scholarships are available on a competitive basis to any yfu participant who is offered admission to the college. ▪ army rotc scholarships: rhodes students may compete for army rotc scholarships providing college tuition and educational fees. awardees also receive a book allowance of $600 per semester and a stipend varying from $350 - $500 per month from the army (estimated). students awarded an army rotc scholarship may receive a rhodes grant up to but not to exceed the equivalent of the cost of on-campus room and board based upon the 21 meal, standard multiple occupancy room rate. rhodes college scholarship, fellowship or grant equal to or greater than the indicated grant amount will be adjusted to the equivalent of the cost of on-campus room and board based upon the 21 meal, standard multiple occupancy room rate. grants are renewable for three years as long as the student retains his/her rotc scholarship and meets the satisfactory academic progress standards for financial aid. information about army rotc scholarships may be obtained by writing to or calling: army rotc the university of memphis memphis, tn 38152 (901)678-2933general information https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/52 38 of 74 7/25/23, 12:53 pm ◦ ▪ air force rotc scholarships: through an agreement between rhodes and the united states air force, rhodes students may participate fully in the afrotc program based at the university of memphis and can compete for afrotc scholarships. incoming freshman can compete for four, and in certain cases, five-year scholarships by applying for an afrotc college scholarship (csp) online at www.afrotc.com. applicants must apply no later than december 1 of the year prior to entering college as a first-year student. scholarships awarded through the csp program include: applicants must apply no later than december 1 of the year prior to entering college as a first-year student. scholarships awarded through the csp program include: ▪ ▪ type 1 - full-tuition and fees ▪ type 2 up to $15,000 per year towards tuition and fees ▪ type 7 - up to $9,000 per year towards tuition and fees students not selected for a csp scholarship, if eligible, can compete for scholarship through the in college scholarship program (icsp) once they are enrolled at rhodes and in afrotc. these scholarships include: ◦ ▪ ▪ ▪ type 2 - $15,000 per year towards tuition and fees ▪ type 3 - $9,000 towards tuition and fees ▪ type 6 - $3,000 towards tuition and fees all afrotc scholarship programs include a $900 per year book allowance. students who receive the type 2 scholarships through csp or iscp are eligible to compete for an upgrade to 80 percent of tuition and fees. afrotc and rhodes grant ◦ ▪ ▪ ▪ type 1 scholarship recipients are also eligible to receive a rhodes grant up to but not to exceed the equivalent of the cost of on-campus room and board based upon the 21-meal, standard multiple-occupancy rate. in addition, if a type i recipient chooses to live at home or with relatives, the amount ofgeneral information https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/52 39 of 74 7/25/23, 12:53 pm the rhodes grant plus the air force type i scholarship cannot be more than rhodes’ cost of attendance for a commuter student living with relatives. ▪ type 2 scholarship recipients may receive a rhodes grant equivalent to fifty percent (50%) of the on-campus cost of room and board based upon the 21 meal, standard multiple occupancy rate. ▪ the rhodes grant will be awarded unless the student has already received a rhodes college scholarship, fellowship or grant equal to or greater than the indicated grant amount. rhodes college scholarship, fellowship or grant equal to or greater than the indicated grant amount will be adjusted to the equivalent of the cost of on-campus room and board based upon the 21 meal, standard multiple occupancy room rate. rhodes grants are renewable for up to three years as long as the student retains his/her rotc scholarship and meets the satisfactory academic progress standards for financial aid. ◦ ▪ navy rotc scholarships: rhodes students may compete for navy rotc scholarships providing college tuition and educational fees. students awarded a navy rotc scholarship may receive a rhodes grant up to but not to exceed the equivalent cost of on-campus room and board based upon the 21 meal, standard multiple occupancy room rate. rhodes college scholarship, fellowship or grant equal to or greater than the indicated grant amount will be adjusted to the equivalent of the cost of on- campus room and board based upon the 21 meal, standard multiple occupancy room rate. grants are renewable for three years as long as the student retains his/her rotc scholarship and meets the satisfactory academic progress standards for financial aid. information about navy rotc scholarships may be obtained by contacting: navy rotc the university of memphis 120 hayden hall memphis, tn 38152 (901) 678-4353 nrotc@memphis.edugeneral information https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/52 40 of 74 7/25/23, 12:53 pm ◦ ▪ veteran benefits: ▪ chapter 35 benefits offer va survivors and dependents education assistance to spouses or children of veterans who have been found eligible by the regional processing office (rpo) due to serviceman death, permanent disability, mia, capture or detention in the line of duty. ▪ chapter 33 benefits offer education assistance for those who served on active duty, received the purple heart, or were honorably discharged on or after september 11, 2011. this benefit extends to their dependents. qualifying veterans or designated dependents may be eligible to receive up to the full cost of pubic, in-state tuition and fees, books (up to approximately 23,600) and housing allowance. to apply for either benefit: ◦ ▪ ▪ log in to your www.vets.gov account at www.va.gov/education/how- to-apply/ ▪ go to the forms drop down box ▪ select and apply for “va form 22-5490, dependents application for va education benefits ▪ post-9/11 yellow ribbon benefits: for the 2019-20 academic year, eligible students may receive up to $5000 in yellow ribbon. rhodes contribution is considered matching if the student has already been awarded institutional scholarships and/or grants of the same or greater amount. yellow ribbon benefits are capped at the cost of attendance minus va benefits minus any other aid received excluding federal student loans. ▪ awards will continue as long as the student has remaining va/yellow ribbon eligibility, is enrolled full-time and in good standing, and maintains satisfactory academic progress. participating students that withdraw from the college and are later readmitted will only be able to participate if space is available. should a student lose his/her yellow ribbon program eligibility and subsequently regain it, he/she must reapply for program participation. ▪ to apply, students must submit their va certificate of eligibility, which shows they are entitled to receive 100% of the benefits payable under the post-9/11 gi bill® program to the office of financial aid: fax: 901-843-3435general information https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/52 41 of 74 7/25/23, 12:53 pm email: waltona@rhodes.edu deliver in person to rhodes express, arlisha walton mail: rhodes college attn: financial aid 2000 north parkway memphis, tn 38112 in compliance with pl:115:407 section 103: any covered individual will be able to attend or participate in the course of education during the period beginning on the date on which the individual provides to the educational institution a certificate of eligibility for entitlement to educational assistance under chapter 31 or 33 (a “certificate of eligibility” can also include a “statement of benefits” obtained from the department of veterans affairs’ (va) website – ebenefits, or a vaf 28-1905 form for chapter 31 authorization purposes) and ending on the earlier of the following dates: 1. the date on which payment from va is made to the institution. 2. 90 days after the date the institution certified tuition and fees following the receipt of the certificate of eligibility. rhodes college will not impose any penalty, including the assessment of late fees, the denial of access to classes, libraries, or other institutional facilities, or the requirement that a covered individual borrow additional funds, on any covered individual because of the individual’s inability to meet his or her financial obligations to the institution due to the delayed disbursement funding from va under chapter 31 or 33. trademark information ‘‘gi bill® is a registered trademark of the u.s. department of veterans affairs (va)”. more information about education benefits offered by va is available at the official u.s. government website at http://www.benefits.va.gov/gibill ." ◦ outside scholarships : scholarships from other organizations may also be available to students who attend rhodes. some of these awards are administered through high schools. however, in most cases, the student applies directly to a club or association. interested students should work with their high school counselors to learn of those scholarships available in their area. pleasegeneral information https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/52 42 of 74 7/25/23, 12:53 pm note that outside scholarships become part of the financial aid package and assist in meeting demonstrated financial need. students must notify the rhodes financial aid office of any outside funding that they receive. a student may not receive more aid than the published cost of attendance at rhodes. federal, state or institutional aid may be reduced in instances when aid from all resources exceeds cost of attendance. tuition exchange and remission programs ◦ rhodes tuition remission program for full-time employees: after one year of service, full-time employees of rhodes may be eligible for up to 2 tuition free courses each semester at rhodes. the employee is responsible for registration and application fees, and must meet rhodes’ admission criteria as established by the committee on admission.the spouse and children of full-time employees are also eligible for tuition remission. eligible students must meet rhodes’ admission requirements to be considered. the full time employee must apply for this benefit through human resources. tuition remission is limited 8 semesters (including summer) for a spouse and each natural child. the total amount of rhodes merit scholarships, including rhodes tuition remission and rhodes fellowships and may not exceed direct charges of tuition, fees, room, and board. rhodes grants and rhodes legacy scholarships cannot be combined with this benefit unless the student has unmet financial need after all other aid has been applied. students receiving institutional aid in excess of tuition will be subject to a reduction if they live off campus. tuition will be remitted on behalf of spouse and/or natural child subject to the following qualifications: ▪ after 1 year of employment - one-third tuition will be remitted ▪ after 2 years of employment - two-thirds tuition will be remitted ▪ after 3 years of employment - full tuition will be remitted ◦ rhodes tuition remission program for part-time employees: after one year of service, part-time employees who work at least 20 hours or more per week are eligible for fractional remission on a pro-rata basis, under the same provisions as full-time employees. the spouse and children of part-time employees are not eligible for tuition remission. employees who work fewer than 20 hours per week are not eligible for tuition remission. ◦ associated colleges of the south (acs): children of employees of acs participating institutions are eligible to be considered for the acs tuition exchange. ▪ rhodes’ agreement with acs indicates that for any given academic year, acs “imports” (students attending rhodes as an acs tuition exchange student) will not exceed “exports” (children of rhodes employees attending another acs college under the agreement) by more than three students. ▪ applicants must submit the fafsa and the css profile orgeneral information https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/52 43 of 74 7/25/23, 12:53 pm supplemental financial aid questions to be considered for the acs scholarship. ▪ only first-time, first year students will be considered for the acs scholarship. ▪ each acs tuition exchange recipient pays a participation fee of $2,000 per academic year. ▪ the acs tuition exchange benefit is equivalent to full tuition at rhodes and is renewable for three years provided the student meets the financial aid satisfactory academic progress standards and meets the eligibility requirements indicated above. ▪ acs tuition exchange benefits may be only used for one of the following rhodes study abroad programs: european studies, affiliated programs or rhodes exchange. interested students must specify that admission is being sought under the acs tuition exchange program, apply for all state and/or federal aid for which he or she may be eligible, and have submitted an acs tuition exchange certification form completed by the appropriate official at their home institution certifying their eligibility for the exchange. ▪ eligible students must meet rhodes’ admission requirements. ▪ the total amount of rhodes-funded scholarships, rhodes fellowships, rhodes grants and exchange programs may not exceed tuition and fees. ▪ recipients may be required to live in a residence hall at the college’s discretion. ▪ preference may be given to students who apply early decision to rhodes. ◦ tuition exchange: students who are dependent children of eligible employees can participate in the tuition exchange program of over 600 schools nationally. ▪ the tuition exchange scholarships are competitive awards and are not guaranteed by rhodes or other participating institutions. ◦ ▪ applicants must submit the fafsa and css profile or supplemental financial aid questions to be considered for the award. ▪ only first-time, first year students will be considered for the te program. ▪ although the tuition exchange promotes and maintains the exchange, scholarships are granted by member institutions, not by the tuition exchange. ▪ the 2023-24 benefit is $41,000. ▪ tuition exchange cannot be combined with rhodes institutional scholarships. ▪ students with exceptional unmet need may be considered for a rhodes grant. ▪ preference may be given to students who apply early decision to rhodes. ▪ recipients may be required to live in a residence hall at the college’sgeneral information https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/52 44 of 74 7/25/23, 12:53 pm discretion. ▪ for more information on this program visit tuitionexchange.org reduced course load students who, due to the impact of a disability, are unable to meet the minimum credit hour per semester standard set by the college (12 hours for undergraduate students), may request an accommodation for a reduced course load with full-time status through student accessibility services. students approved for this accommodation will be entitled to the same rights and privileges as other full-time students, including consideration for financial aid. the amount of aid awarded, however, will be reduced to the proportionate amount that corresponds with the student’s course load. for example, a minimum of twelve (12) credits per semester is required to receive rhodes-funded student aid as a full-time student. if a student has received approval from student accessibility services to be considered a full-time student for a course load of eight (8) credits in a given semester, the rhodes-funded aid will be reduced to 2/3 of the amount it would have been if the student were taking twelve (12) or more credits. a course load of six (6) credits will always be considered to be half-time. no rhodes-funded aid will be available to any student who is enrolled less than half- time. additionally, approved students will be eligible to receive rhodes- funded aid for a maximum of twelve (12) semesters or 150% of the standard time required for completion of a bachelor’s degree; the total rhodes- funded aid will be limited to the amount the student would have received for eight (8) semesters taking standard course loads. renewal of financial aid satisfactory academic progress (sap) requirements: satisfactory academic progress (sap) must be maintained for renewal of federal (title iv), state, and institutional aid, including federal direct plus (parent loan for undergraduate students). per federal guidelines, all students must obtain: ◦ a total cumulative grade point average of at least *1.50 and has completed 67% of their classes by the end of their freshman year ◦ a total cumulative grade point average of at least *2.00 and has completed 67% of their classes by the end of their sophomore year *certain scholarships and fellowships require a higher gpa for renewal. for individual requirements, see below under scholarships and fellowships. students must also be aware of their pace toward graduation. the following schedule outlines the pace needed to graduate in eight (8) semesters: ◦ student has earned at least 28 credits of course work by the beginning of his/hergeneral information https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/52 45 of 74 7/25/23, 12:53 pm third semester of study at rhodes ◦ student has earned at least 60 credits of course work by the beginning of his/her fifth semester of study at rhodes ◦ student has earned at least 92 credits of course work by the beginning of his/her seventh semester of study at rhodes note: these standards apply to satisfactory academic progress for financial aid only and do not establish class standing. if changes to the policy above occur prior to the next publication of the catalogue, the online version of the catalogue will be updated while awaiting the next publication date for the bound catalogue. additional requirements: in addition to sap requirements, students must meet the following requirement to renew federal (title iv), state, and institutional aid, including federal plus: ◦ students must be enrolled at least half-time (6 credits) in order to be eligible for any title iv (except pell grant) or state assistance. rhodes grants require full- time enrollment (at least 12 credits). duration of financial aid: if students meet the above requirements, the duration of their aid will be renewed as follows: ◦ federal and state aid: the maximum time frame in which a student can complete a degree is six (6) years, and the minimum number of credits to be completed at the end of any one of the six years is one sixth of the total number of credits required for a degree (see graduation requirements). ◦ rhodes-funded aid: the maximum time frame is four (4) years or eight (8) semesters. ◦ tennessee lottery scholarships: the maximum time frame for receipt of these funds is eight (8) semesters review of financial aid: grades and cumulative earned credits are reviewed at the end of each academic year for all students, unless stated otherwise by the director of financial aid. enrollment status is based on the recorded enrollment at the end of the “extended drop period” each term. variance to reinstate financial aid: should a student become ineligible to receive financial aid due to not meeting the above minimum standards, the student may appeal for a variance from the satisfactory academic progress requirements for one term. the appeal should be submitted to the director of financial aid in writing by email or by letter. if the variance request is approved, the student’s aid will be reinstated based on the conditions and length of the approval as stated by the director of financial aid. this decision is communicated via rhodes email to thegeneral information https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/52 46 of 74 7/25/23, 12:53 pm student. definitions and regulations concerning full-time student status, course schedule changes, unauthorized withdrawal from class, and removal of conditional grades are stated in other sections of the college catalogue. 9th semester awards (scholarship/grant) rhodes provides eligible students with institutional merit scholarship and grants for up to eight semesters or the completion of their rhodes degree, whichever comes first. students wishing to continue their education for a 9th semester may apply for an exception to this policy by submitting a letter to the director of financial aid outlining a proposal for continuing their education at rhodes. while institutional priority will be to fund students seeking their primary undergraduate degree. rhodes may, depending on available resources and demonstrated need, provide institutional funding proportional of previous semesters awards not to exceed 50% tuition for the enrolled semester. students seeking grant funding for the 9th semester must complete the free application for federal student aid (fafsa) in the senior year. students must provide parental income when completing the fafsa as an undergraduate student. students approved for a 9th semester award may enroll less than full-time for the 9th semester of aid; in such case they will receive a prorated disbursement of the 9th semester award. rhodes will not provide institutional funding to replace state or federal assistance that has been exhausted by prior enrollment. the awarding of the exception applies to 9th semester and does not extend to semesters beyond that period. students in their 9th semester may only receive federal pell grant, state grants and/or seog for classes required to complete their major. regardless of enrollment pell grant will adjusted to either three quarter, half or less than half-time to match the hours required for the major. seog will be cancelled if hours needed is less than 12 hours. students may request an award by completing the form attached to this link. https://stuinfo.rhodes.edu/register /ninthsemesteraid scholarships ◦ morse scholarships may be renewed for three years as long as the student maintains a grade point average of 2.75 or better and meets the minimum satisfactory academic progress standards for renewal of financial aid described previously. ◦ cambridge scholarships may be renewed for three years as long as the recipient maintains a grade point average of 2.75 or better and meets the minimum satisfactory academic progress standards for renewal of financial aidgeneral information https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/52 47 of 74 7/25/23, 12:53 pm described previously. ◦ dean’s scholarships, presidential scholarships, hon, diehl, and day scholarships may be renewed for three years as long as the recipient maintains a grade point average of 2.50 or better and meets the minimum satisfactory academic progress standards for renewal of financial aid described previously. ◦ rhodes awards and rhodes grants may be renewed for three years as long as the recipient maintains a grade point average of 2.00 or better and meets the minimum satisfactory academic progress standards for renewal of financial aid described previously. fellowships ◦ bellingrath fellowships may be renewed for three years as long as the student maintains a grade point average of 3.25 or better, meets the minimum satisfactory academic progress standards for renewal of financial aid described previously, and provides ten hours per week of service to the office of admission. ◦ fine arts fellowships may be renewed for three years as long as the student has declared, or is making satisfactory progress toward, a major or minor in one of the fine arts. the student must also maintain a grade point average of 2.75 or better and meet the minimum satisfactory academic progress standards for renewal of financial aid previously described. ◦ spencer fellowships in ancient mediterranean studies (formerly greek and roman studies) may be renewed for three years as long as the recipient maintains a grade point average of 2.75 or better, meets the minimum satisfactory academic progress standards for renewal of financial aid described previously, and has declared, or is making satisfactory progress toward, a major or minor in greek and roman studies. ◦ taylor fellowships may be renewed for three years as long as the student maintains a grade point average of 3.00 or better, meets the minimum satisfactory academic progress standards for financial aid as described previously, is making satisfactory progress toward a major or minor in physics (as determined by the physics department), and provides five hours per week of service to the physics department. ◦ bonner scholarships may be renewed for three years as long as the recipient meets the minimum satisfactory academic progress standards for renewal of financial aid described previously, maintains a 2.50 grade point average, is involved in community service and leadership programs for an average of ten hours per week, completes two summers of full-time community service for a total of 280 hours over at least a seven-week period, participates in the college’s leadership program, and participates in the bonner scholars servicegeneral information https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/52 48 of 74 7/25/23, 12:53 pm trip at the end of the student’s first year at rhodes. revision of financial aid awards financial aid is dynamic and may change as new information becomes available to the rhodes financial aid office. any financial aid package is subject to revision (even during the academic year) for any of the following reasons: ◦ in the process of verifying the information the student/parent reported on the need analysis form(s) (fafsa and/or css profile), an error is discovered which, when corrected, changes the student’s eligibility. ◦ a change in regulations governing federal or state programs occurs and requires an adjustment to be made. ◦ funding levels in federal or state programs are reduced. ◦ the student receives additional financial assistance, including, but not limited to, outside scholarships, from a source not listed on the most recent award notification or on bannerweb. ◦ the student fails to meet satisfactory academic progress standards for renewal of financial aid. ◦ the financial aid office discovers any error, clerical or other, on an award. ◦ the student fails to complete required financial aid applications for need-based federal, state and institutional aid, including any documents required for verification of fafsa information. please note that any aid reduced based on the above will not be replaced by rhodes- funded grant. financial aid for study abroad rhodes students enrolled in study abroad programs administered (sponsored) by rhodes (european studies, rhodes exchange programs and rhodes affiliated programs) are eligible for competitive-based, need-based financial aid from rhodes, federal and /or state aid for one semester- or year-long program. in addition to the included program costs, students participating in a study abroad program should budget for additional expenses such as airfare, books, supplies, incidental expenses and ground transportation. meals may or may not be included depending on the program. all forms of financial aid for which the student would normally qualify will be applicable, including rhodes grants and scholarships, tennessee state grants /scholarships, campus-based title iv and other title iv funds, as well as any outside loans or scholarships the student might have. however, the sum of rhodes need- based grant and competitive-based scholarship awarded for the term of the programgeneral information https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/52 49 of 74 7/25/23, 12:53 pm may not exceed the tuition charge at rhodes for one semester (or, for an academic year for programs of that duration). student employment income will be replaced by additional loan, if requested, and need in excess of the cost of attending rhodes will be met by loan or by the student’s family. rhodes students receiving financial assistance from the college who choose to participate in one of rhodes’ exchange programs are considered to be rhodes students. the financial aid awarded to the student to meet the costs of the exchange program are considered expended for that term. in other words, a student who elects to participate in an exchange program is considered to have used one of the 8 total semesters of institutional eligibility of aid. students will not be eligible for either rhodes need-based financial aid or for rhodes competitive scholarship/fellowship aid for more than one study abroad program during their time at rhodes. the above policies apply to study abroad programs that occur during the fall and spring semesters of the academic year. summer study abroad programs are excluded, as no rhodes need-based aid or competitive scholarships/fellowships are available for summer study abroad. rhodes students enrolled in study abroad programs administered (sponsored) by rhodes (european studies, rhodes exchange and rhodes affiliate partner programs) are eligible for merit based and need-based financial aid from rhodes. these funds are only available for one program during a student’s time of study at rhodes. students in study abroad programs may only receive federal pell grant, seog and/or state funding for classes required to complete their major. regardless of enrollment pell grant will adjusted to either three quarter, half or less than half- time to match the hours required for the major. seog will be cancelled if hours needed is less than 12 hours. post-baccalaureate aid ◦ graduate accounting grant students admitted to the masters of science in accounting program are automatically considered for a departmental scholarship with no additional forms required to be filed. departmental scholarships for students in the m.s. in accounting program are merit based; financial need is not a consideration. selection for a scholarship is based upon the candidate’s academic record, personal achievements, and promise of success in accounting. rhodes does permit traditional students that complete their undergraduate degree in less than eight consecutive semesters to apply their undergraduate institutional awards toward the masters in accounting program up to a total of 8 terms. students who did not use a semester of aid whilegeneral information https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/52 50 of 74 7/25/23, 12:53 pm pursuing a non-rhodes or non- exchange study abroad program are not included in this provision. students may not receive a departmental scholarship while eligible to receive a remaining portion of undergraduate institutional scholarships and/or grants. ◦ teacher education certification scholarship • students enrolled in the post baccalaureate teacher education program may apply for a need based award proportional to institutional aid/tuition received as an undergraduate up to the maximum of the ed licensure program tuition charge of $7500. students must have completed a fafsa in their last year as an undergraduate student attending rhodes to be considered. non-citizens are exempt from completing the fafsa however the school may require a css profile on file to determine need. students whose proportional aid exceeds 100% may apply for a rhodes campus housing grant to reside on campus. ◦ noyce stem teach scholarship the noyce program at rhodes college will offer 18 stem students scholarships of $37,500 to be paid out in their junior and senior years as well as their student teaching semester ($15,000 junior year; $15,000 senior year; $7500 for 9th semester student teaching) from 2019-2024. the noyce professional scholarship is a forgivable loan, if complete terms are not met the scholarship converts to an interest bearing loan from the date of disbursement. noyce scholars must teach for 2 years per year of funding received: which means in accepting the scholarship they are agreeing to teaching in a high needs school for 5 years within a total of 8 years after completing the program. noyce scholars must also complete an exit interview and participate in specified education events and activities and other requirements outlined in the promissory note. alternative financing for families who prefer to pay college costs in interest-free monthly installments, rhodes suggests tuition management systems, 171 service avenue, warick, ri 02886 or by phone at (800)722-4867 or online at www.afford.com/rhodes. arrangements must be made with this agency prior to the due date of the first tuition payment. the bursar’s office is the primary on-campus contact for this program. there are a number of alternative (private) loan programs available for interested students and their families. please refer to the financial aid website at www.rhodes.edu/finaid for more information.general information https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/52 51 of 74 7/25/23, 12:53 pm special circumstances and appeals if a family’s financial circumstances change during enrollment at rhodes, a written appeal may be made to the director of financial aid. a letter of appeal should explain new significant family circumstances, outline any financial changes the family has experienced, and request a specific amount of assistance. the family may be required to submit a new css profile and/or a new fafsa. the form to complete for an appeal based on special circumstances can be found at www.rhodes.edu/forms withdrawal from rhodes and return of funds ◦ return of federal title iv student aid : when a student who has federal title iv student aid withdraws from the college or does not return from an approved leave of absence, within the same academic term, the unearned portion of those funds must be returned to the federal student aid programs. federal title iv funds that may have to be returned include: ▪ unsubsidized federal direct loans ▪ subsidized federal direct loans ▪ federal parent loan for undergraduate students (plus) ▪ federal pell grants ▪ federal supplemental educational opportunity grants (seog). federal regulations require funds be returned to federal programs in the order listed above. the unearned portion of federal title iv funds is determined by dividing the number of days in the term that have passed as of the date of withdrawal (last date of class attendance) by the total number of days in the term. if the withdrawal occurs after 60% of the term has elapsed, no return of title iv funds is required. the bursar’s office calculates the return of title iv funds amount and informs the financial aid office and the student of the results of the calculation. • return of state and institutional student aid : when a student who has state and/or institutional student aid withdraws from the college or does not return from an approved leave of absence, the college returns the unearned portion of those funds to the state and/or the college in accordance with the withdrawal policy outlined in the “expense” section of this catalogue. • student financial responsibility: students and parents should be aware that the requirement to return federal title iv assistance and the policy to return state and institutional aid might result in a balance due to rhodes college; the student and/or student’s family is responsible for paying any balance resulting from the return of title iv aid and state and institutional funds.general information https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/52 52 of 74 7/25/23, 12:53 pm printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/general-information/financial-aid student life student organizations rhodes is home to more than 100 student organizations that fall into a wide range of categories: • academic and honorary • advocacy • club sports and recreation • cultural • governing • fraternity & sorority life • interfaith • media and performance • service • special interest you can see a full listing of active organizations on presence and search them by any of the categories listed above. student government the main purpose of the rhodes student government is to provide an organization to represent the needs and concerns of the rhodes student body to the faculty and administration. the student government is the primary vehicle for student participation in the governance process of rhodes. the members of student government seek to keep the group effectively involved in many areas of campus life. all meetings are open to the entire campus, and students are strongly encouraged to attend. the student government oversees the allocation of the student activity fund; nominates students for appointment to serve on faculty and administrative committees; directs the student government committees; and generally entertains any matters of student interest or concern at meetings and campus-wide forums. elections are held in the spring for all positions except the first-year representatives, which are elected in the fall. honor societies the rhodes college chapter of phi beta kappa, gamma chapter of tennessee, was established at the college in 1949. for over two hundred years, election to phi betageneral information https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/52 53 of 74 7/25/23, 12:53 pm kappa has been a recognition of exceptional academic achievement in the liberal arts and sciences. rhodes students are elected to phi beta kappa by the members of the chapter chiefly on the basis of outstanding academic achievement in the study of liberal subjects. omicron delta kappa, phi circle, was established at the college in 1927. the purpose of this national organization is to recognize leadership in college activities and to undertake various activities for the good of the college. student members are chosen from the junior and senior classes, and not more than three per cent of the student body may be elected to membership. members must have distinguished themselves in such activities as scholarship, athletics, and publications. sigma tau delta, national english honor society, was established at rhodes in 1984. the purpose of this society is to promote the study of literature in english and to recognize outstanding achievement in this area. mortar board, a national honor society for seniors, was established at rhodes april 17, 1964, for the purpose of recognizing excellence in scholarship, leadership, and service. the pi kappa lambda honorary academic music fraternity was established in the spring of 1949. it recognizes outstanding achievement in music and may elect not over twenty per cent of those members of the senior class majoring in music. eta sigma phi, honorary society for students of classical language, was established at rhodes in 1952. the purpose of this society is to promote interest in all aspects of ancient greek and roman culture. those who have at least a b average in advanced courses in either greek or latin are eligible for membership. the rhodes chapter of sigma pi sigma, the national physics honor society, was established may 27, 1963. the chapter receives into membership physics students and a limited number from closely related fields when such students attain high standards of scholarship, professional merit, and academic distinction. omicron delta epsilon is one of the world's largest academic honor societies. the objectives of omicron delta epsilon are recognition of scholastic attainment and the honoring of outstanding achievements in economics; the establishment of closer ties between students and faculty in economics within colleges and universities, and among colleges and universities; the publication of its official journal, the american economist, and sponsoring of panels at professional meetings as well as the irving fisher and frank w. taussig competitions. the minimum requirements for admission for undergraduates are completion of 12 semester hours economics courses and attainment of at least a 3.50 in economics courses and an overall 3.50 in all classes. students do not have to be economics majors, but must have a genuine interest in economics in addition to meeting the above requirements.general information https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/52 54 of 74 7/25/23, 12:53 pm theta chapter of sigma iota rho, a national honor society in international studies, is a charter chapter that was founded at rhodes in 1986. the purpose of sigma iota rho is to recognize academic excellence and to promote information about and study of contemporary international issues. students are eligible for membership beginning in their junior year, and must have a 3.2 cumulative grade point average and a 3.3 within the major. psi chi, the national honorary society in psychology, was reactivated at rhodes in 1987 for the purpose of encouraging, stimulating, and maintaining excellence in scholarship and advancing the science of psychology as a profession. membership in this society, which is affiliated with the american psychological association and which is a member of the association of college honor societies, is by invitation and limited to psychology majors. theta nu chapter of the national order of omega was chartered in the spring of 1987. it serves to recognize outstanding members of the fraternities and sororities on the basis of scholarship and leadership. a grade point average equal to or above the all-greek average is required for consideration for membership. applications for members are extended each year to eligible rising juniors and seniors. the alpha epsilon delta chapter of phi alpha theta, international honor society in history, was established at rhodes in 1990. phi alpha theta brings students, teachers, and writers of history together both intellectually and socially, and it encourages and assists historical research and publication by its members. students who have completed the required number of history hours at the 3.3 level and maintain at least a 3.2 overall grade point average are eligible for membership. student members host informational gatherings for first-year students, hold career workshops, sponsor speakers, and publish an annual journal of exemplary student papers. beta beta beta is an honorary and professional society for students of the biological sciences. the mu rho chapter of this national society was founded at rhodes college in 1992. it seeks to encourage scholarly attainment in this field of learning by reserving its regular membership for those who achieve superior academic records and who indicate special aptitude for and major interest in the life sciences. pi delta phi is an honorary society for students of french language, literature, and culture. the nu nu chapter of this national society was founded at rhodes in 2004. the purpose of the society is to recognize outstanding scholarship in the french language and its literatures, increase the knowledge and appreciation of americans for the cultural contributions of the french-speaking world, and to stimulate and encourage french and francophone cultural activities. iota iota iota is a national honor society that recognizes academic excellence in the field of women’s studies while striving to maintain the feminist values central to women’s studies: egalitarianism, inclusiveness, and a celebration of the diversity of women’s experiences.general information https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/52 55 of 74 7/25/23, 12:53 pm iota iota iota works to promote an interest in women’ s studies and research in social problems affecting all women. the chi chapter of iota iota iota was chartered at rhodes college in 2004. delta phi alpha, the national german honor society seeks to recognize excellence in the study of german and to provide an incentive for higher scholarship. the society aims to promote the study of the german language, literature and civilization and endeavors to emphasize those aspects of german life and culture which are of universal value and which contribute to man’s eternal search for peace and truth. dobro slovo, the national slavic honor society, is an honorary organization for talented undergraduate and graduate students in the slavic languages. it serves as a means for the recognition of academic excellence in the study of slavic languages, literature, and history, and provides incentive for scholarly interest in slavic life and culture. the rhodes chapter of the society was established in 2003. sigma delta pi is the national collegiate honorary society for students who distinguish themselves in the study of hispanic language, literature and culture. the society was founded in 1919 at the university of california, and the phi epsilon chapter was established at rhodes in 2005. theta alpha kappa is the only national honor society serving the needs of those involved in the study of religion and/or theology at both the baccalaureate and post-baccalaureate levels of higher education. honoring excellence in these academic fields is its primary purpose, and it currently hosts over 140 local chapters throughout the united states at institutions both large and small, public and private. the rhodes chapter, alpha epsilon iota, was created in 2000 and serves approximately 40 members. candidates for admission to theta alpha kappa must have an overall gpa of at least 3.0, at least 12 credit hours in religious studies (including humanities “search” courses) and at least a 3.5 gpa in those classes. nu rho psi, national neuroscience honor society, was established at rhodes in 2014. the rhodes chapter will be the first for tennessee. the objectives of nu rho psi are to encourage professional interest and excellence in scholarship in neuroscience, award recognition to students who have achieved such excellence, promote intellectual and social interaction between students, faculty, and professionals in the field, and encourage service to the community. kappa alpha omicron is the honor society of the interdisciplinary environmental association, honoring academic excellence in the studies of environmental science or environmental studies. the society recognizes academic achievement and outreach. the rho chapter at rhodes college was established in 2021. printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/general-information/student-lifegeneral information https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/52 56 of 74 7/25/23, 12:53 pm academic advising and support academic advising the mission of academic advising at rhodes is to promote student learning. each entering student is assigned an academic advisor, who will function in that capacity until the student formally declares a major. major declaration must be done prior to the registration period of the student's spring semester of their sophomore year. at that point, a faculty advisor from the major department is either selected by or assigned to the student. assisted by the academic advisor, the student learns: • to understand the nature of a liberal arts education; • to assess his or her strengths and weaknesses; • to formulate educational and career goals; • to plan a course of action to achieve those goals. career advising the career services staff assists students in evaluating majors, exploring career fields, and preparing for post-graduation plans. students are encouraged to schedule a meeting with a career services staff member as early as their first year to take advantage of career advising, internships, and programs which will lead to future success. career services offers opportunities to engage with employers and graduate school representatives through programs including meet the firms, graduate school expo, fall and spring career fairs, and other networking opportunities. each year, approximately 55% of graduates will go into full-time careers (including full- time volunteer programs such as the peace corps) and approximately 42% will seek an additional degree. in addition to the programs and services offered by career services, students can seek pre-professional advisement from designated faculty advisors. in some cases, very specific recommendations for pre-professional courses have been developed: medicine and the health sciences, business, and law. the advisors named below have this information and should be consulted early in one’s undergraduate work. pre-professional advisors • accounting: professor wendy bailey • architecture: professor david mccarthygeneral information https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/52 57 of 74 7/25/23, 12:53 pm • business: ◦ accounting: professor wendy bailey ◦ finance: professor jade planchon ◦ management: professor dee birnbaum ◦ marketing: professor sujan dan • clinical psychology: professor katie white • education: professor zachary casey • engineering: professor ann viano • foreign service: professor stephen ceccoli • health care management: professor dee birnbaum • health professions: director jessica kelso • law: professor anna eldridge • ministry and church-related professions: professor stephen haynes and chaplain beatrix weil • museum curation: professor victor coonin and professor david mccarthy • music: professor courtenay harter • theatre: professor joy fairfield • veterinary medicine: director jessica kelso preparation for graduate study approximately 40% of rhodes students will enroll in a graduate or professional degree program within a year of graduation. students can increase their marketability for graduate school by prioritizing academic study, participating in academic research, completing internships, and/or engaging in leadership and service positions. the rhodes liberal arts curriculum provides students with a solid foundation for future study. as students begin to enter their sophomore or junior year, they should identify faculty members who can assist with course selection and other academic opportunities to ensure that students have the background needed to pursue an advanced degree. it is important to note that some graduate degrees will require specific courses in order to be considered for admission while other graduate programs will consider a wide breath of upper-level coursework to be more appealing. students should consult with their faculty advisor for guidance on the type of courses that would be most relevant for an advanced degree in their chosen field of study. in addition to faculty advisors, the career services staff also serves as a resource for students by aiding with graduate school essays and interviews. academic support services for students rhodes college offers academic support services to assist students in reaching theirgeneral information https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/52 58 of 74 7/25/23, 12:53 pm academic goals. the mission of the student success staff is to support the personal growth and academic development of students and serve as a resource to all members of the rhodes community. staff members on the student success team meet with students who need academic encouragement, mentoring, and individualized support. academic and learning resources provides individual assistance, workshops, and peer programs focused on learning and time management to help students develop personal and academic strategies. peer coaching helps students with goal setting, scheduling, and study habits. supplemental instruction facilitates regular, weekly group study sessions to integrate how-to-learn with what-to-learn for typically challenging classes. peer tutoring helps students to better understand course content. student accessibility services provides resources to students who qualify for academic accommodations. laser coaching consists of free group coaching sessions focused on planning and prioritizing each week. it is led by an adhd coach who also provides private adhd coaching for an additional fee. students and families can meet with the consultant to learn how adhd coaching may fit the student's needs. the kurzweil/firefly software is an assistive technology resource designed to enhance student learning. due to the college's site-wide license, it is free to all students, faculty, and staff. rhodes testing room, which is located in 303 barret library, is a non-proctored, distraction-limited testing space accessible by fob only to rhodes students with approved testing accommodations. student accessibility rhodes is committed to ensuring educational programs are accessible to all qualified students. therefore, in accordance with the provisions of section 504 of the rehabilitation act of 1973 and title iii of the americans with disabilities act of 1990, as amended, the office of student accessibility services (sas) provides reasonable accommodations, academic adjustments, and/or auxiliary aids on a case-by-case basis for students who have a demonstrated need for these services. accommodations are determined individually and designed to meet the student’s needs without fundamentally altering the nature of the college’s instructional programs. all accommodation requests are the responsibility of the student. prospective students with accessibility concerns should contact the office of admission. enrolled students with disabilities or temporary conditions should contact sas to discuss accommodation needs and specific barriers to inclusion. requirements include but are not limited to mental health, attention, learning, vision, hearing, chronic health, and mobility impairments. reasonable accommodations are established through an interactive process between the student, sas, and faculty. since some accommodations may require several weeks of preparation, students should contact sas to discuss access needs as soon as possible after admission. for additionalgeneral information https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/52 59 of 74 7/25/23, 12:53 pm information on sas resources and the process for requesting accommodations, please get in touch with sas at accessibilityservices@rhodes.edu , 901-843-3815, burrow hall 4th floor, www.rhodes.edu/accessibility . printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/general-information/academic-advising-and- support academic calendar the academic year consists of two semesters, each containing fourteen weeks of instruction and a fifteenth week devoted to examinations. the first semester begins in late august and ends in mid-december; the second semester begins in january and ends in early may. summer course offerings consist of two 5 week sessions as well as various academic study programs offered across the curriculum. a detailed calendar including dates of recesses and special academic days is included in the catalogue, and may be found elsewhere on the website. printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/general-information/academic-calendar 2022-2023 academic calendar fall semester 2022 opening faculty meeting august 17, wednesday orientation for new students august 18-23, thursday - tuesday opening convocation *formal academic occasion*august 19, friday late registration begins august 22, monday classes begin august 24, wednesday last day to submit work for conditional grades august 24, wednesday late registration ends august 30, tuesday conditional grades due to registrar august 30, tuesday enrollment clearance ends august 31, wednesday extended drop period begins august 31, wednesday labor day/no classes september 5, monday extended drop period ends september 14, wednesdaygeneral information https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/52 60 of 74 7/25/23, 12:53 pm withdraw period begins september 15, thursday end of first seven weeks october 12, wednesday mid-term grades due october 14, friday, 5 p.m. fall recess begins, 10 p.m. october 14, friday fall recess ends 8 a.m. october 19, wednesday spring 2023 pre-registration begins october 26, wednesday withdraw period ends/pass fail option ends november 11, friday thanksgiving recess begins november 22, tuesday, 10 p.m. thanksgiving recess ends november 28, monday, 8 a.m. classes end december 7, wednesday, 10 p.m. reading day december 8, thursday final examinationsdecember 9 - 14, friday - wednesday end of fall semester december 14, wednesday final grades due december 16, friday, 5 p.m. spring semester 2023 orientation for new students january 9, monday late registration begins january 9, monday classes begin january 11, wednesday last day to submit work for conditional grades january 11, wednesday mlk jr day/no classes january 16, monday enrollment clearance ends january 18, wednesday late registration ends january 18, wednesday conditional grades due to registrar january 18, wednesday extended drop period begins january 19, thursday extended drop period ends february 1, wednesday withdraw period begins february 2, thursdaygeneral information https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/52 61 of 74 7/25/23, 12:53 pm end of first seven weeks march 1, wednesday mid-term grades due march 6, monday, 9 a.m. spring recess begins march 10, friday, 10 p.m. spring recess ends march 20, monday, 8 a.m. fall 2023 pre-registration begins march 27, monday easter recess begins april 5, wednesday, 10 p.m. easter recess ends april 10, monday, 8 a.m. withdraw period ends/pass fail option ends april 10, monday awards convocation *formal academic occasion*april 28, friday rhodes symposium april 28, friday classes end april 28, friday, 10 p.m. reading day april 29, saturday final examinations begin may 1, monday reading day may 4, thursday final examinations end/end of semester may 6, saturday final grades due may 8, monday, 9 a.m. baccalaureate *formal academic occasion* may 12, friday commencement *formal academic occasion* may 13, saturday summer 2023 term summer session i classes begin may 15, monday last day to add may 16, tuesday drop period ends may 19, friday memorial day holiday/no classes may 29, monday withdraw and pass/fail options end june 8, thursday classes end june 16, friday final exams june 17, saturdaygeneral information https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/52 62 of 74 7/25/23, 12:53 pm juneteenth holiday/no classes june 19, monday final grades due june 20, tuesday, noon summer session ii classes begin june 21, wednesday add period ends june 22, thursday drop period ends june 27, tuesday independence day holiday/no classes july 4, tuesday withdraw and pass/fail options end july 17, monday classes end july 25, tuesday final exams july 26, wednesday final grades due july 28, friday, noon full summer session final grades due august 4, friday, 5 p.m. printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/general-information/academic-calendar /2022-2023-academic-calendar 2023-2024 academic calendar fall semester 2023 open enrollment (add/drop) begins july 24, monday, noon opening faculty meeting august 16, wednesday orientation for new students august 18-22, friday-tuesday opening convocation *formal academic occasion* august 18, friday classes begin august 23, wednesday last day to submit work for prior term conditional gradesaugust 23, wednesday registration add period ends august 29, tuesdaygeneral information https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/52 63 of 74 7/25/23, 12:53 pm extended drop period begins august 30, wednesday labor day/no classes september 4, monday extended drop period ends september 13, wednesday withdraw period begins september 14, thursday end of first seven weeks october 11, wednesday mid-term grades due october 13, friday, 5 p.m. fall recess begins october 13, friday, 10 p.m. fall recess ends october 18, wednesday, 8 a.m. spring 2024 onboarding and advising appointments beginoctober 18, wednesday presidential inauguration *formal academic occasion*october 21, saturday spring 2024 onboarding and advising appointments endnovember 3, friday withdraw period ends november 10, friday pass/fail option ends november 10, friday spring 2024 registration appointments november 13-17, monday - friday thanksgiving recess begins november 21, tuesday, 10 p.m. thanksgiving recess ends november 27, monday, 8 a.m. classes end december 6, wednesday, 10 p.m. reading day december 7, thursday final examinationsdecember 8 - 13, friday - wednesday end of fall semester december 13, wednesday final grades due december 15, friday, 5 p.m. spring semester 2024 open enrollment (add/drop) begins january 8, monday orientation for new students january 8, monday classes begin january 10, wednesdaygeneral information https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/52 64 of 74 7/25/23, 12:53 pm last day to submit work for prior term conditional gradesjanuary 10, wednesday mlk jr day/no classes january 15, monday registration add period ends january 17, wednesday extended drop period begins january 18, thursday extended drop period ends january 31, wednesday withdraw period begins february 1, thursday end of first seven weeks february 28, wednesday mid-term grades due march 4, monday, 9 a.m. spring recess begins march 8, friday, 10 p.m. spring recess ends march 18, monday, 8 a.m. easter recess begins march 27, wednesday, 10 p.m. easter recess ends april 1, monday, 8 a.m. withdraw period ends april 5, friday pass/fail option ends april 5, friday classes end april 25, thursday, 10 p.m. awards convocation *formal academic occasion* april 26, friday rhodes symposium april 26, friday reading day april 27, saturday final examinations begin april 29, monday reading day may 2, thursday final examinations end/end of semester may 4, saturday final grades due may 6, monday, 9 a.m. baccalaureate *formal academic occasion* may 10, friday commencement *formal academic occasion* may 11, saturday summer 2024 term summer session i general information https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/52 65 of 74 7/25/23, 12:53 pm classes begin may 13, monday registration add period ends may 14, tuesday registration drop period ends may 17, friday withdraw period begins may 18, saturday memorial day holiday/no classes may 27, monday withdraw period ends june 6, thursday pass/fail option end june 6, thursday classes end june 14, friday final exams june 15, saturday final grades due june 17, monday, noon summer session ii (tentative) classes begin june 20, thursday registration add period ends june 21, friday registration drop period ends june 26, wednesday withdraw period begins june 27, thursday independence day holiday/no classes july 4, thursday withdraw period ends july 16, tuesday pass/fail option end july 16, tuesday classes end july 24, wednesday final exams july 25, thursday final grades due july 27, saturday, noon full summer session final grades due august 2, friday, noon printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/general-information/academic-calendar /2023-2024-academic-calendar 2024-2025 academic calendargeneral information https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/52 66 of 74 7/25/23, 12:53 pm fall semester 2024 opening faculty meeting august 21, wednesday orientation for new students august 22 -27, thursday-tuesday opening convocation *formal academic occasion*august 23, friday late registration begins august 26, monday classes begin august 28, wednesday last day to submit work for conditional grades august 28, wednesday labor day/no classes september 2, monday late registration ends september 4, wednesday enrollment clearance ends september 4, wednesday extended drop period begins september 5, thursday extended drop period ends september 18, wednesday, 5 p.m. withdraw period begins september 19, thursday end of first seven weeks october 16, wednesday mid-term grades due october 18, friday, 5 p.m. fall recess begins, 10 p.m. october 18, friday fall recess ends 8 a.m. october 23, wednesday spring 2025 pre-registration begins october 30, wednesday pass/fail option ends november 15, friday, 5 p.m. withdraw period ends november 15, friday, 5 p.m. thanksgiving recess begins november 26, tuesday, 10 p.m. thanksgiving recess ends december 2, monday, 8 a.m. classes end december 11, wednesday, 10 p.m. reading day december 12, thursday final examinationsdecember 13-18, friday - wednesday end of fall semester december 18, wednesday final grades due december 20, friday, 5 p.m.general information https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/52 67 of 74 7/25/23, 12:53 pm spring semester 2025 orientation for new students january 13, monday late registration begins january 13, monday classes begin january 15, wednesday last day to submit work for conditional grades january 15, wednesday mlk jr day/no classes january 20, monday enrollment clearance ends january 22, wednesday, 5 p.m. late registration ends january 22, wednesday, 5 p.m. extended drop period begins january 23, thursday extended drop period ends february 5, wednesday, 5 p.m. withdraw period begins february 6, thursday end of first seven weeks march 5, wednesday mid-term grades due march 7, friday, 9 a.m. spring recess begins march 7, friday, 10 p.m. spring recess ends march 17, monday, 8 a.m. fall 2025 pre-registration opens march 19, wednesday pass/fail option ends april 11, friday, 5 p.m. withdraw period ends april 11, friday, 5 p.m. easter recess begins april 16, wednesday, 10 p.m. easter recess ends april 21, monday, 8 a.m. awards convocation *formal academic occasion*may 2, friday rhodes symposium may 2, friday classes end may 2, friday 10 p.m. reading day may 3, saturday final examinations begin may 5, monday reading day may 8, thursday final examinations end/end of semester may 10, saturdaygeneral information https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/52 68 of 74 7/25/23, 12:53 pm final grades due may 12, monday, 9 a.m. baccalaureate *formal academic occasion* may 16, friday commencement *formal academic occasion* may 17, saturday summer 2025 term summer session i classes begin may 19, monday last day to add may 20, tuesday memorial day holiday/no classes may 26, monday drop ends may 27, tuesday withdraw and pass/fail options end june 12, thursday juneteenth/no classes june 19, thursday classes end june 20, friday final exams june 21, saturday final grades due june 23, monday, noon summer session ii classes begin june 25, wednesday add period ends june 26, thursday drop ends july 2, wednesday independence day holiday/no classes july 4, friday withdraw and pass/fail options end july 21, monday classes end july 29, tuesday final exams july 30, wednesday final grades due august 1, friday, noon full summer session final grades due august 8, friday, noongeneral information https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/52 69 of 74 7/25/23, 12:53 pm printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/general-information/academic-calendar /2024-2025-academic-calendar student expectations & behavioral policies student expectations the college expects all students to conduct themselves as responsible citizens of this community. therefore, all students must abide by the rhodes honor system – the honor code, the standards for the rhodes community, and the rhodes commitment to diversity. with honor system, everyone from the rhodes college community maintains the values and expectations by which they live and learn together. persistent or extreme departures from this standard may lead to restrictions, removal from campus, suspension, or expulsion from the college. rhodes reserves the right to exclude persons whose conduct is undesirable at any time. in such cases, no tuition, fees, or room and board refunds are made, and the college, its students, faculty, administrators, councils, committees, and officers do not bear any liability. the administration of rules for student behavior is the responsibility of the dean of students, office of community standards, administrative designees, the honor council, and the community standards council. this section of the college catalogue provides a broad overview. in addition, the student handbook, available on the college website, contains all student policies. the honor council and community standards council the students of rhodes assume responsibility for honorable conduct in campus life. they elect an honor council and a community standards council. each council is composed of elected representatives from each of the four classes. the councils investigate alleged infractions of the honor code and standards of conduct and enforce regulations with sanctions up to and including expulsion. the decision may be appealed to the faculty appeals committee or a designated appeals committee. these committees may return cases to the appropriate council for reconsideration; in that case, the council’s decision is final. every entering student is expected at matriculation to sign a pledge promising to uphold the college commitment to diversity statement, the honor code, and the standards of conduct. alcohol use a complete description of the rhodes college social and alcohol policy can be found in the student handbook on the college website. as a community, we embrace the vision ofgeneral information https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/52 70 of 74 7/25/23, 12:53 pm a healthy and balanced social environment grounded in trust and open communication among faculty, staff, and students. such an environment fosters personal and community growth and embodies a sense of responsibility and accountability to self and others. this vision depends upon each member's commitment to achieve and maintain inclusiveness, consistency, continual education, and the growth of shared traditions. it is our duty to one another. rhodes college supports legal, responsible, and healthy behaviors and reflects our community values. rhodes is committed to providing the members of its community with information about alcohol as well as confidential referrals for professional assistance if it is needed. an awareness of the positive and negative effects of alcohol consumption may assist in efforts to make safe and responsible choices about alcohol. educational programs are organized and conducted annually to promote continued awareness and encourage an attitude of genuine concern and care for others. drug use the possession, use, sale, or distribution of illegal drugs, the misuse or abuse of medications, or other legal drugs on the rhodes campus is prohibited. such conduct: • violates the law; • violates one’s physical and mental health; and, • violates the fabric of the community with serious security risks resulting from dealing with individuals operating outside the law. as citizens, the students, faculty, and staff of rhodes are responsible for knowing and complying with all applicable state and local laws that make it a crime to possess, sell, deliver, or manufacture those drugs considered controlled substances by the state of tennessee. any member of the rhodes community who violates the law is subject to prosecution and punishment by civil authorities and to disciplinary proceedings by the college. sexual misconduct policy rhodes college is committed to ensuring a safe learning environment that supports the dignity of all members of the rhodes community. rhodes does not discriminate on the basis of sex in any of its education or employment programs and activities. rhodes will not tolerate any form of sexual harassment, including sexual assault, dating violence, domestic violence, or stalking. this title ix policy (the “policy”) is intended to ensure that all members of the rhodes community involved in a title ix case receive appropriate support and fair treatment and that allegations of sexual harassment are handled in a prompt, thorough, and equitable manner. general information https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/52 71 of 74 7/25/23, 12:53 pm all rhodes students and employees are expected to comply with this policy. rhodes strongly encourages students to report instances of sexual harassment immediately. in addition, according to rhodes’ employee handbook and rhodes’ mandatory reporter policy, employees are required to report such instances. rhodes will review, evaluate, and make any revisions or amendments to this policy on an ongoing and as-needed basis. general inquiries about the application of this policy should be directed to the college’s title ix coordinator: inez warner, j.d. title ix coordinator rhodes college southwestern hall, ste. 303 2000 north parkway memphis, tn 38112 901-843-3354 warneri@rhodes.edu the complete sexual misconduct policy is in the student handbook and on the title ix and sexual misconduct page . college initiated administrative withdrawal (ciaw) the college occasionally faces the problem of students who pose a threat to themselves or others, who are unable to cope, or who create a pattern of extreme disruption. if such behavior violates college rules and regulations, the case will be referred to the dean of students or the dean’s designee for action. the college may administratively withdraw a student from classes, remove a student from residence halls, and/or require conditions for continued enrollment when one of the following transpires: • the student significantly disrupts the activities of the college community: • the student poses a direct risk to the health or safety of others; or • the student demonstrates evidence of significant impairment such that they are unable to participate safely and successfully in the college's academic and/or residential life and cannot independently determine that a voluntary leave is needed. in the circumstance described above, the dean of students (dos), in consultation with the appropriate medical, psychological, and academic resources, may administrativelygeneral information https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/52 72 of 74 7/25/23, 12:53 pm withdraw a student from their classes, remove the student from the residence halls, and/or place conditions on the student’s continued enrollment. the decision must be based on assessing 1) the probability, nature, duration, and severity of the disruption, risk, and/or impairment; and 2) whether reasonable accommodations can mitigate the risk allowing the student to remain enrolled. under certain circumstances, either before or after deciding to withdraw the student administratively, dos may mandate that the student undergo a psychological or medical assessment to evaluate the student’s ability to participate successfully in the college community. dos’s determination regarding ciaw and the reasons supporting the decision are shared in written form with the student. the written determination includes the length of separation from the college and describes the conditions the student may seek to return. a student may appeal the ciaw determination in writing, and provide supporting documentation, within forty-eight (48) hours, the vice president for student life, whose decision is the college's final decision. campus modes of communication the two-official means of communication at rhodes are campus mail and rhodes email. all students, staff, and faculty have a personal rhodes e-mail address, and students are expected to check this account regularly during the semester, breaks, and recesses. official notices to individuals and the campus community are sent via e-mail; such correspondence is considered official. in addition to email, some official notices, communication, and information are sent via campus mail. for this reason, all students must maintain a p.o. box in the mailroom in burrow hall. residency requirement living on campus is a vital part of the college experience and aids the student’s adjustment to college. therefore, all first-time first-year students at rhodes must live on campus for their first three full academic years. transfer students must live in college housing until they have completed three full academic years; previous enrollment at other institutions counts toward fulfilling this requirement. exchange students must reside in college housing for their enrollment at rhodes. all rising sophomore resident students must participate in the housing lottery process to comply with the residency requirement. if a student does not participate in the housing lottery, the office of residence life will select a space for the student. the student will be notified of the room and meal plan assignment in writing. printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/general-information/student-expectations-general information https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/52 73 of 74 7/25/23, 12:53 pm behavioral-policiesgeneral information https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/52 74 of 74 7/25/23, 12:53 pm home »programs of study published on rhodes college: rhodes catalogue (https://catalog.rhodes.edu/) programs of study a course at rhodes is an academic activity undertaken by a student that is structured, directed, advised, and evaluated by a faculty member. typically, a course requires a student to read, listen, discuss, and write while learning and developing specific abilities and sensibilities and while internalizing information and ideas from the specific subject areas outlined in the course syllabus. these activities require many hours of work over a semester and involve regular meetings with the faculty member and other enrolled students. the meetings or class sessions provide opportunities for lecture by faculty, discussion among students, student presentations, and other activities directly related to students’ learning that are naturally done in a collective setting. class meetings and the final examination period together usually constitute only one-fourth to one-third of the time spent on a course, so the majority of time a student dedicates to a course is outside of the classroom or laboratory. measured in academic credit, a typical student’s work load each semester is sixteen credits. such a load corresponds to approximately fifty to fifty-five hours of work per week and is consistent with the understanding that a student’s academic work is considered to be his or her full-time job while enrolled in the college. one credit is equivalent to one semester hour. a student is expected to spend a minimum of forty-six hours in academic study for every hour of academic credit. this principle applies to directed inquiries, tutorial study, and to all courses in the curriculum. the college reserves the right to cancel any course for which there is insufficient enrollment. “fall” and “spring” below the course titles indicate the semester in which the course is normally taught. however, course offerings are affected by semester or annual staffing patterns, so the semester class schedule should be consulted for the official course offerings for any one semester. course credit is shown at the right of the line. courses taught in a two-semester sequence are normally scheduled with the fall semester course being the first in the sequence. in most cases, the second course in the sequence requires successful completion of the first course, but there are some sequential courses that allow the second course to be taken first. the course descriptions will identify such courses. credit is given for half of a hyphenated course should the student not enroll the following semester.programs of study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53 1 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 pm course numbering normally courses numbered in the one-hundreds and two-hundreds are for first and second year students; those in the three-hundreds and four-hundreds are for juniors and seniors. courses numbered above 500 are graduate-level courses and are open only to students admitted to the graduate program. courses numbered above 800 are courses designed for and offered only to students attending any of the various rhodes foreign study programs. in general, courses numbered in the one-hundreds and two-hundreds are offered yearly. higher level courses are frequently offered every other year. students making long range plans for majors are urged to consult with the chairperson of the department for information concerning the sequence of offerings. from time to time, special topics courses are offered by faculty members. these courses are not listed in the catalogue by title or description. they are conducted in a manner consistent with regular course offerings, governed by normal class schedules and examination policies; however, they may not be used to satisfy degree requirements unless so specified at the time the course was approved. special topics courses are also used for transfer credit in some cases where no exact equivalent course is offered in the rhodes curriculum. foundation courses only certain courses in the rhodes curriculum and in each department are approved to meet foundation requirements. each of these courses is designated in the course description in this catalog and on the class schedule for each semester online. it is the student’s responsibility to be aware of what courses in which they may be enrolled satisfy foundation requirements. such courses are submitted by faculty members to the foundations curriculum committee for approval. it is not possible for students to request foundation credit approval by the committee for any coursework with the exception of foundation 11. self-initiated requests for f11 credit for certain coursework or experiences may be requested using the appropriate form available online. directed inquiries may not be used unless requested by the department and approved by the foundations curriculum committee. with very few exceptions, the courses designated as fulfilling degree requirements carry four credits. an accumulation of one-credit applied music may be used to satisfy the fine arts or the f5 requirements. class schedules courses carrying four credits normally meet for a total of 150 minutes per week. the four- credit classes meeting three days per week meet for fifty minutes during each class period. those four-credit classes meeting two days per week meet for seventy-fiveprograms of study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53 2 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 pm minutes during each class period. others will meet four or five times per week on other daily schedules. laboratory courses carrying four credits will also meet one or two afternoons per week for the laboratory. the amount of credit does not necessarily equate to the time spent in the classroom. outside of class assignments, readings, service- learning opportunities, and other activities supplement the actual class time. the academic calendar the academic year consists of two semesters, each containing fourteen weeks of instruction and a fifteenth week devoted to examinations. the first semester begins in late august and ends in mid-december; the second semester begins in january and ends in early may. a detailed calendar including dates of recesses and special academic days may be found elsewhere in the college catalogue or on the rhodes web site. students normally enroll in four courses, totaling sixteen credits, each semester. in each academic year a student should plan to earn a minimum of thirty-two credits in order to meet all graduation requirements in the standard four-year undergraduate program. printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study africana studies the mission of the africana studies program is to understand and appreciate the integral yet distinct experiences of people of african heritage throughout the world. the program’s curriculum aims to emphasize diasporic connections between africa, the caribbean, europe and the americas in an effort to enrich our understanding and appreciation of our complex and diverse world. deeply interdisciplinary, the program engages a wide swath of faculty from various departments/programs as course instructors and program interlocutors. given this approach, the program encourages students to seek appropriate ways to integrate content and analysis in this broad subject matter with their work in other disciplines and programs. graduates of the program will be critical, thoughtful global citizens, well-prepared to succeed professionally, academically, and personally in our pluralistic world. printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/africana-studies africana studies: program committee charles w. mckinney, jr., chair, africana studies, associate professor of history charles hughes, director, lynne and henry turley memphis center, associate professorprograms of study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53 3 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 pm of urban studies duane t. loynes, sr. , assistant professor, urban studies and africana studies samson ndanyi, assistant professor, history and africana studies evelyn perry, associate professor, anthropology and sociology earl wright ii, professor, anthropology and sociology shatavia wynn, assistant professor, africana studies and religious studies printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/africana-studies/africana-studies- program-committee requirements for a major in africana studies requirements for a major in africana studies a total of 11 courses (44 credits) as follows: 1. afs 105: introduction to africana studies 2. afs 305: africana theory 3. afs 485: senior seminar in africana studies 4. at least four (4) afs-approved electives in the humanities and fine arts divisions 5. at least four (4) afs-approved electives in the social sciences and natural sciences divisions at least three electives must be courses based outside of the united states. students may not take more than three electives from any one department. at least two electives must be at the 300/400 level. selected topics courses in any department related to africana subject content may also count toward the major with approval of the program director. printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/africana-studies/requirements- major-africana-studiesprograms of study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53 4 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 pm requirements for a minor in africana studies a total of twenty-four (24) credits as follows: 1. africana studies 105 (introduction to africana studies) 2. africana studies 305 (africana theory) 3. either history 242 (african american history) or english 224 (african american literature) 4. international studies 251 (government and politics of africa) 5. two (2) approved africana studies electives printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/africana-studies/requirements- minor-africana-studies ancient mediterranean studies the ancient mediterranean studies program (formerly greek and roman studies) helps students develop a thorough understanding of the ancient greek, roman, and associated cultures as the basis for the artistic, scientific, social, and political traditions of western society. in addition to this disciplinary function, the department fulfills other roles in the college's curriculum: the f10 degree requirement. the degree requirement in languages may be met by the successful completion of any appropriate four-credit course numbered 201 or higher or by demonstrating proficiency through placement into a language course at a level above 201 and approval by the appropriate language faculty. students who take 201 (or higher) or the equivalent at another institution can earn transfer credit, but must still demonstrate proficiency in the specific language before the degree requirement is satisfied. this policy pertains to languages that are taught at rhodes. students for whom english is a second language may have this requirement waived. rhodes offers a secondary licensure program within the teaching and learning track of the educational studies major. this program prepares students to teach middle and/or high school in one of eleven endorsement areas, including latin. the course of study for secondary licensure students is designed with guidance from faculty members in the discipline in which the student is being certified as well as members of the educational studies program. all secondary licensure candidates are required to double major inprograms of study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53 5 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 pm educational studies and their endorsement discipline. printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/ancient-mediterranean-studies ancient mediterranean studies: faculty and staff professors geoffrey w. bakewell . 2011. chair. b.a., yale university; ph.d., brown university. (plato, tragedy, athenian democracy, greek and latin languages and literatures) david h. sick . 1997. b.a., college of wooster; m.a. and ph.d., university of minnesota. (greek and roman religion, indo-european mythology, roman social history, greek and latin languages and literatures) associate professors kenneth s. morrell . 1993. b.a., stanford university; m.a. and ph.d., harvard university. (greek and latin languages and literatures, information technology) susan satterfield . 2008. b.a., university of alabama; ph.d., princeton university. (roman history, religion, and historiography; greek and latin languages and literatures) assistant professors joseph n. jansen . 2007. b.a., university of wisconsin; ph.d., university of texas at austin. (ancient history, economy, and historiography, greek and latin languages and literatures) ariel lópez. 2014. b.a., university of buenos aires; ph.d. princeton university. (late antique history, monasticism, coptic language and literature) r. scott garner . 2016. b.a. university of missouri--columbia; ph.d., princeton university. (oral tradition, greek epic and poetry, greek and latin languages and literatures)programs of study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53 6 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 pm staff christy waldkirch 2005. departmental assistant. printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/ancient-mediterranean-studies /ancient-mediterranean-studies-faculty-and-staff honors in ancient mediterranean studies detailed information about graduating with honors in ancient mediterranean studies is available from the department. only students with a minimum overall gpa of 3.5 and a gpa within ams of 3.7 by the end of the fall semester of their junior year will be eligible to pursue honors. in addition to fulfilling the requirements for the major with a concentration in either greek, latin, classical studies, or material culture, students seeking honors will be expected to complete the following additional work: 1. ams 495-496: honors tutorial. (ams 496 will count as ams 475-6 for students attempting to graduate with honors.) 2. an honors thesis or project that demonstrates an exceptional understanding of one or more aspects of the ancient world. such a project might take the form, for example, of a written thesis, an analysis of archaeological fieldwork, or the production of a tragedy or comedy. printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/ancient-mediterranean-studies /honors-ancient-mediterranean-studies programs abroad to help students experience the artifacts of the greeks and romans and other mediterranean cultures in the areas where they lived, ams offers a number of opportunities for travel-study abroad. as described below in the descriptions for ams 305 and latin 232, the department regularly offers courses that involve travel and study in greece, italy, and other countries in the mediterranean and middle east. faculty members also contribute to collaborative initiatives that provide opportunities for research, and the department secures places for students in archaeological excavations and surveys, suchprograms of study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53 7 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 pm as those at the harbor at kenchreai, greece. finally, the college is a member of the american school of classical studies in athens and the intercollegiate center for classical studies in rome, which operate centers for study and research in greece and italy respectively. printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/ancient-mediterranean-studies /programs-abroad requirements for a major in ancient mediterranean studies concentration in languages: a total of thirteen courses (46 credits) as follows: 1. six courses (24 credits) of ancient greek, latin, or hebrew. four of these courses must be above the 201 level, and the student must take courses in at least two of these languages. 2. ancient mediterranean studies 275, 474, 475, and 476. 3. three courses (12 credits) on the cultures and civilizations of the ancient mediterranean. the courses below count toward this requirement: ◦ ancient mediterranean studies: 110, 111, 150, 210, 235, 240, 245, 250, 255, 260, 265, 270, 280, 283, 285, 290, 305, 310, 315, 361 ◦ art 209, 218, 219, 220, 353, 365 (when appropriate), 375 ◦ history 105 (when appropriate), 211, 221, 222, 223 ◦ humanities (search) 101, 102, 201 (classical track) ◦ philosophy 201 ◦ religious studies 214, 280, 281, 282, 283, 285, 286 ◦ one of the following: english 315, 316, 319, or 335 concentration in cultures: a total of thirteen courses (46 credits) as follows:programs of study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53 8 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 pm 1. one course (4 credits) of ancient greek and/or latin beyond 201. 2. ancient mediterranean studies 275, 474, 475, and 476. 3. eight courses (32 credits) on the cultures and civilizations of the ancient mediterranean. the courses below count toward this requirement: ◦ ancient mediterranean studies: 110, 111, 150, 210, 235, 240, 245, 250, 255, 260, 265, 270, 280, 283, 285, 290, 305, 310, 315, 361 ◦ art 209, 218, 219, 220, 353, 365 (when appropriate), 375 ◦ additional courses in ancient greek and/or latin beyond 201 ◦ hebrew 101, 102, 201, 202 ◦ history 105 (when appropriate), 211, 221, 222, 223 ◦ humanities (search) 101, 102, 201 (classical track) ◦ philosophy 201 ◦ religious studies 214, 280, 281, 282, 283, 285, 286 ◦ one of the following: english 315, 316, 319, or 335 concentration in archaeology: a total of thirteen courses (46 credits) as follows: 1. one course (4 credits) of ancient greek or latin beyond 201. 2. ancient mediterranean studies 275, 474, 475, and 476. 3. archaeology 220 or anthropology 254: archaeological methods. 4. three courses (12 credits) from the following courses: ◦ art 209, 218, 219, 220, 353, 365 (when appropriate), 375 5. four courses (16 credits) from the following courses: ◦ anthropology 290/archaeology 210 ◦ chemistry 107 ◦ ancient mediterranean studies 110, 111, 150, 210, 235, 240, 245, 250, 255,programs of study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53 9 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 pm 260, 265, 270, 280, 283, 285, 290, 305, 315, 361 ◦ humanities (search) 101, 102, 201 (classical track) ◦ history 105 (when appropriate), 211, 221, 222, 223 ◦ religious studies 260 printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/ancient-mediterranean-studies /requirements-major-ancient-mediterranean-studies requirements for a minor in ancient mediterranean studies concentration in languages a total of seven courses (28 credits) as follows: 1. four courses (16 credits) of ancient greek, latin, or hebrew. two of these courses must be above the 201 level, and the student must take courses in at least two of these ancient languages. 2. ancient mediterranean studies 275. 3. two courses (8 credits) on the cultures and civilizations of the ancient mediterranean. the courses below count toward this requirement: ◦ ancient mediterranean studies: 110, 111, 150, 210, 240, 245, 250, 255, 260, 265, 270, 280, 283, 285, 290, 305, 315, 361 ◦ art 209, 218, 219, 220, 353, 365 (when appropriate), 375 ◦ history 105 (when appropriate), 211, 221, 222, 223 ◦ humanities (search) 101, 102, 201 (classical track) ◦ philosophy 201 ◦ religious studies 214, 280, 281, 282, 283, 285, 286 ◦ one of the following: english 315, 316, 319, or 335 concentration in culturesprograms of study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53 10 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 pm a total of seven courses (28 credits) as follows: 1. one course (4 credits) of ancient greek and/or latin beyond 201. 2. ancient mediterranean studies 275. 3. five courses (20 credits) of courses on the cultures and civilizations of the ancient mediterranean. the courses below count toward this requirement: ◦ ancient mediterranean studies: 110, 111, 150, 210, 240, 245, 250, 255, 260, 265, 270, 280, 283, 285, 290, 305, 315, 361 ◦ art 209, 218, 219, 220, 353, 365 (when appropriate), 375 ◦ additional courses in ancient greek and/or latin beyond 201 ◦ hebrew 101, 102, 201, 202 ◦ history 105 (when appropriate), 211, 221, 222, 223 ◦ humanities (search) 101, 102, 201 (classical track) ◦ philosophy 201 ◦ religious studies 214, 280, 281, 282, 283, 285, 286 ◦ one of the following: english 315, 316, 319, or 335 concentration in archaeology a total of seven courses (28 credits) as follows: 1. one course (4 credits) of ancient greek or latin beyond 201. 2. ancient mediterranean studies 275 3. archaeology 220 or anthropology 254: archaeological methods. 4. two courses (8 credits) from the following courses: ◦ art 209, 210, 218, 219, 220, 353, 365 (when appropriate), 375 5. two courses (8 credits) from the following courses: ◦ anthropology 290/archaeology 210 ◦ chemistry 107programs of study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53 11 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 pm ◦ ancient mediterranean studies 110, 111, 150, 210, 240, 245, 250, 255, 260, 265, 270, 280, 283, 285, 290, 305, 315, 361 ◦ humanities (search) 101, 102, 201 (classical track) ◦ history 105 (when appropriate), 211, 221, 222, 223 ◦ religious studies 260 printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/ancient-mediterranean-studies /requirements-minor-ancient-mediterranean-studies anthropology and sociology anthropology and sociology offers students an opportunity to learn how to interpret and explain the structural and environmental forces that influence human action, and that have resulted in myriad cultural forms. printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/anthropology-and-sociology anthropology/sociology: faculty and staff professor susan m. kus. 1984. b.a., university of michigan; m.a. and ph.d., university of michigan. (archaeology, state formation, symbolic anthropology, ethno-archaeology, sub- saharan africa and madagascar.) earl wright ii. 1994. b.a., university of memphis; 1997. m.a., university of memphis; 2000 phd., university of nebraska. (historical sociology, qualitative research methods, race and ethnicity, and urban sociology. associate professor jeanne lopiparo. 2009. b.a., harvard university; m.a. and ph.d., university of california, berkeley. (mesoamerican archaeology, material culture, social identity, complex societies.) evelyn perry. chair. 2010. b.a., colorado college; m.a. and ph.d., indiana university. (urban and community sociology, culture, inequality, race, class, gender ethnography.) assistant professorsprograms of study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53 12 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 pm kimberly c. kasper. 2011. b.a., fordham university; m.sc. florida state university; m.sc, sheffield university; ph.d., university of massachusetts, amherst. (human- environmental interactions, paleoethnobotany, spatial analysis, north american archaeology, ethics.) hadi khoshneviss. 2020. b.a., school of journalism, tehran, iran; m.a. university of tehran, iran; m.a. university college london; london, england; ph.d. university of south florida, tampa, florida. (race and ethnicity, immigration, movement and mobility, nationalism, social theory, decolonial theory.) staff anjeanette johnson-tiamiyu. departmental assistant printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/anthropology-and-sociology /anthropologysociology-faculty-and-staff requirements for a minor in anthropology/sociology a total of twenty-four (24) credits as follows: 1. anthropology/sociology 103 and 105. 2. one of the following courses: anthropology/sociology 380 or another theoretically intensive course. each semester, we offer at least one elective that counts as a theoretically intensive course for minors. consult with the chair. 3. three additional courses (12 credits) in anthropology/sociology. printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/anthropology-and-sociology /requirements-minor-anthropologysociology requirements for a major in anthropology/sociology a total of 48 credits as follows: 1. anthropology/sociology 103 and 105 2. anthropology/sociology 351 (to be taken fall of junior year) 3. one of the following methods courses: anthropology/sociology 352, anthropology/sociology 254, archaeology 120, archaeology 450, interdisciplinaryprograms of study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53 13 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 pm studies 225, urban studies 220, or other methodologically intensive course by petition (ideally taken junior year) 4. anthropology/sociology 380 (to be taken fall of junior year) 5. anthropology/sociology 485 (to be taken fall of senior year) 6. anthropology/sociology 486 (to be taken spring of senior year) 7. five additional courses (20 credits) in anthropology/sociology the five elective courses are chosen in conference with departmental faculty members and should reflect the student’s specific interests and needs. in addition to anthropology and sociology courses, students may count the following courses as electives towards the major: field research in environmental archaeology (arce 120), learning from things: material culture studies (arce 210), archaeological methods (arce 220), archaeological field school (arce 450), geographic information systems (intd 225). printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/anthropology-and-sociology /requirements-major-anthropologysociology honors in anthropology/sociology 1. completion of all requirements for a bachelor of arts degree in anthropology and sociology, as well as a minimum overall grade point average of 3.50 and a minimum anthropology and sociology grade point average of 3.50. 2. completion of anthropology/sociology 495 - 496 3. completion of a substantial research project and paper in an area of special interest to the candidate. printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/anthropology-and-sociology /honors-anthropologysociology archaeology archaeology at rhodes involves ground-level, empirical techniques such as survey and excavation to recover material remains, as well as the application of scientific and statistical methods to the study of material culture. printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/archaeologyprograms of study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53 14 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 pm archaeology: program committee miriam clinton , department of art and art history, chair of the archaeology program (on sabbatical 2023-2024) sarah ifft decker , department of history ariel lopez , department of ancient mediterranean studies jeanne lopiparo , department of anthropology and sociology kenny morrell , department of ancient mediterranean studies jon russ , department of chemistry susan satterfield , department of ancient mediterranean studies, interim chair of the archaeology program 2023-2024 printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/archaeology/archaeology- program-committee requirements for a minor in archaeology a total of twenty (20) credits as follows: 1. one of the following courses: 1. archaeology 210 or anthropology 290: learning from things: material culture studies 2. archaeology 220 or anthropology 254: archaeological methods 3. art 220: classical archaeology. the other courses on the list above may be taken to satisfy the requirement of three courses that deal with archaeological issues (section 2a). 2. three elective courses that deal with archaeological issues or that offer skills relevant to archaeology, offered in various departments. at least two departments must be represented to satisfy this requirement. students may satisfy this requirement with three courses that deal substantially with archaeological issues or material (section 2a), or two courses may be taken from section 2a and one course from section 2b (courses that offer skills relevant to archaeology). a list of archaeology-approved courses is updated and circulated every semester. students with questions are encouraged to contact the program chair. 1. at least two courses that deal substantially with archaeological issues or material. the following courses are representative offerings that satisfy thisprograms of study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53 15 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 pm requirement. ▪ anthropology/sociology 202: understanding the past: archaeological perspectives on culture ▪ anthropology/sociology 207: archaeology of sex and gender ▪ anthropology/sociology 221: north of the rio grande: indigenous people of north america ▪ anthropology/sociology 265: selected introductory topics in anthropology and sociology (when subject matter pertains to archaeology) ▪ anthropology/sociology 275: food and culture ▪ anthropology/sociology 325: the maya and their world ▪ anthropology/sociology 327: gender and power in latin america ▪ art 209: art and architecture of the ancient near east and egypt ▪ art 218: greek art and architecture ▪ art 219: roman art and architecture ▪ art 265: topics in art (when subject matter pertains to archaeology) ▪ art 353: art and life in pompeii ▪ chemistry 107: chemistry and archaeology ▪ ancient mediterranean studies 361: gis and mediterranean archaeology ▪ religious studies 260: archaeology and the biblical world ▪ religious studies 276-277: selected topics in hebrew/bible/old testament (when subject matter pertains to archaeology) ▪ religious studies 285-286: selected topics in new testament (when subject matter pertains to archaeology) 2. some courses will be useful for archaeology students, even though they do not specifically include an archaeological component. one of these courses may be used to satisfy part of the requirement of three elective courses. the followingprograms of study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53 16 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 pm courses are representative offerings that satisfy this requirement: ▪ chemistry 120 and 121l: foundations of chemistry with lab ▪ environmental studies 111: physical geology ▪ interdepartmental 225: geographic information systems 3. fieldwork. each student in the minor will be required to complete an archaeological fieldwork experience in which they will have a substantial engagement with archaeological methods in the field outside the rhodes campus. there are several ways to complete this requirement, some of which are credit-bearing, but others are not. as with the college’s f11 requirement, students are not required to receive academic credit. the fieldwork component may be fulfilled by a course that counts as one of the electives for the major. students may enroll in one of the courses listed below (section 3a), or receive approval from the chair of the program for an alternative experience (section 3b). 1. students may enroll in one of the following: ▪ ancient mediterranean studies 315: fieldwork in material culture ▪ archaeology 120: field research in environmental archaeology ▪ archaeology 450: archaeological field school ▪ archaeology 460: internship ▪ art 375: archaeological fieldwork in greece 2. experiences other than those listed above must be approved by the chair of the archaeology program in advance and will require a substantial essay, evaluated by the chair of the program, which links the student’s experience with what they learned in the classroom. experiences may include organized fieldwork projects with rhodes faculty or staff oversight, or off-campus experiences with significant archaeological content as determined by the chair of the archaeology program. students who elect section 3b are still required to meet the minimum of 20 credit hours and therefore must take an additional archaeology elective (section 2a). printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/archaeology/requirements-minor- archaeology art and art historyprograms of study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53 17 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 pm the department of art and art history offers to the student, regardless of experience or major, the opportunity to develop a sensitivity to visual language through studio work and the study of the history of art. printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/art-and-art-history art and art history: faculty and staff professors david p. mccarthy . 1991. chair. b.a., gettysburg college; ph.d., university of delaware. (modern, contemporary, and american art.) a. victor coonin . 1995. b.a., oberlin college; m.a., syracuse university; ph.d., rutgers university. (medieval, renaissance, and baroque art history.) associate professors miriam g. clinton . 2015. b.a., yale university; m.a., ph.d., university of pennsylvania (ancient art.) erin harmon . 2003. b.a., san diego state university; m.f.a., rhode island school of design. (painting and drawing.) assistant professors joel parsons . 2014. b.a., rhodes college; m.f.a., school of the art institute of chicago. (sculpture and performance.) karl erickson . 2018. b.f.a., wayne state university; m.f.a., california institute of the arts. (digital arts and new media.) raina belleau . 2019. b.f.a., minneapolis college of art and design; m.f.a., rhode island school of design. (sculpture and drawing.) director, clough-hanson gallery joel parsons . 2014. b.a., rhodes college; m.f.a., school of the art institute of chicago. (sculpture and performance.) curator, visual resources center rosanna parrella meindl . 2014. b.a., lewis and clark college; m.a., university of oregon (asian studies.) staffprograms of study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53 18 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 pm christie arnold , departmental assistant. ethan mcvay , studio technician. b.f.a., university of memphis. the clough-hanson gallery, located in clough hall, brings to campus exhibitions of contemporary art from september through march. in april and early may, the gallery hosts two student exhibitions: the juried student exhibit and the senior thesis exhibit. the department of art and art history offers three majors to meet students’ particular interests and post-graduate goals: art, art history, and a combined art and art history sequence. printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/art-and-art-history/art-and-art- history-faculty-and-staff requirements for a major in art for the student interested in art as a vocation, for teaching, or for further study in graduate school, this program of study is suggested. a total of forty (40) credits as follows: studio art: two of the following 100-level courses: 101: drawing, 102: digital, 105: painting, 107: sculpture, 116: animation (not to be paired with 102). art 386: experiments in media & methods, 485: senior seminar in art, 486: senior thesis. art history: 152: survey of contemporary art. four additional courses in the department of art and art history including at least two 200 level and above studio classes and at least one 300 level studio course. printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/art-and-art-history/requirements- major-art requirements for a major in art history for those students interested in the study of art history with graduate school as a possible goal, this program of study is suggested. a total of forty (40) credits as follows: studio art: any studio course art 151: survey of western art art 152: survey of contemporary artprograms of study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53 19 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 pm art 218: greek art and architecture art 223: italian renaissance art art 242: modern art ii three additional courses in art history at the 200 level or above art 485: senior seminar in art history printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/art-and-art-history/requirements- major-art-history requirements for a major in art and art history a total of fifty-six (56) credits as follows: studio art: two of the following: 101: drawing, 102: digital, 105: painting, 107: sculpture, 116: animation (may not to be paired with 102) art 386: experiments in media & methods, art 485: senior seminar, art 486: senior thesis; and art history 485: senior seminar in art history art history: 151: survey of western art, 152: survey of contemporary art, 218: greek art, 223: italian renaissance art, 242: modern art ii an additional course in studio at the 200 level or above two additional courses in the department of art and art history at the 200 level or above printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/art-and-art-history/requirements- major-art-and-art-history requirements for a minor in art a total of twenty-eight (28) credits as follows: studio art: two of the following: 101: drawing, 102: digital, 105: painting, 107: sculpture, 116: animation (may not be paired with 102) art 386: experiments in media & methods, 485: senior seminar in art. art history: 152: survey of contemporary art two studio art courses at 200-level or aboveprograms of study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53 20 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 pm printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/art-and-art-history/requirements- minor-art requirements for a minor in art history a total of twenty-eight (28) credits as follows: studio art: any studio course art 151: survey of western art, 152: survey of contemporary art three courses in art history at the 200 or 300 level, with one from each of the three areas of concentration (ancient, medieval through baroque, modern) art 485: senior seminar in art history printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/art-and-art-history/requirements- minor-art-history honors in art and art history 1. in the spring of the junior year, an art major, in consultation with an appropriate member of the art faculty, may write a proposal for honors work to be carried out in the senior year. the department must approve the proposal. 2. an overall grade of a- on the thesis or project itself is required for honors credit. printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/art-and-art-history/honors-art- and-art-history requirements for a major in art history with concentration in museum studies for those students interested in the study of art history with graduate school in museum studies or a career working with galleries as a possible goal, this program of study is suggested. a total of forty (40) credits as follows: studio art: any studio course. art 151: survey of western art.programs of study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53 21 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 pm art 152: survey of contemporary art. art 218: greek art and architecture. art 223: italian renaissance art. art 242: modern art ii. art 260: curation in context. art 461: museum/gallery internship. four credit hours. one additional course in art history. art 485: senior seminar in art history. printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/art-and-art-history/requirements- major-art-history-concentration-museum-studies asian studies the political, economic, and cultural importance of the nations of asia grows every year and the asian studies program promotes the understanding of asia’s historical, cultural, political, and economic role in the world. printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/asian-studies asian studies: program committee chien-kai chen , department of international studies li han , department of modern languages and literature john c. kaltner , department of religious studies seok-won lee , department of history david mason , media studies program brooke schedneck , department of religious studies yinyin xue , department of modern languages and literature shaolu yu , urban studies program, chair lynn b. zastoupil , department of history printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/asian-studies/asian-studies- program-committeeprograms of study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53 22 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 pm requirements for a minor in asian studies a total of twenty (20) credits as follows: 1. one "primary" asian studies course. 2. one "secondary" asian studies course offered by a department other than that which provided the course that fulfilled the "primary" requirement. 3. three additional, 200+ level, approved asian studies courses. "primary" asian studies courses history 105: revolutions and revolutionaries in modern east asia history 105: world war ii in asia history 105: the mongol world empire history 105: the two koreas, past and present art 165: survey of asian art chinese 206: introduction to east asian cultures chinese 214: introduction to chinese culture chinese 216: asian urbanization through cinema history 282: traditional china history 283: modern china history 287: traditional japan history 293: ancient and medieval india international studies 261: government and politics of china international studies 263: comparative political economy of east asia religious studies 255: living religions of southeast asia religious studies 258: buddhism religious studies 258: buddhism in thai society "secondary" asian studies courses chinese 205: modern chinese literature in translation chinese 215: gender in chinese literature chinese 220: contemporary chinese cinema history 205: the vietnam wars history 282: traditional china history 283: modern china history 287: traditional japanprograms of study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53 23 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 pm history 288: japan since 1800 history 293: ancient and medieval india history 294: modern india international studies 261: government and politics of china international studies 262: china’s foreign policy international studies 263: comparative political economy of east asia international studies 264: china-taiwan-us relations religious studies 255: living religions of southeast asia religious studies 258: buddhism religious studies 258: buddhism in thai society religious studies 232: religion, women, and social change in asia religious studies 232: religion and the asian city religious studies 301: socially engaged buddhism additional asian studies courses history 385: nomads of inner asia history 391: gandhi history 481: cold war in east asia printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/asian-studies/requirements- minor-asian-studies biochemistry and molecular biology biochemistry and molecular biology (bmb) is an interdisciplinary major that allows students to study life at the molecular level under the guidance of faculty drawn from the departments of biology, chemistry, and mathematics & computer science. printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/biochemistry-and-molecular- biology biochemistry and molecular biology: program committee terry hill , department of biology larryn peterson , department of chemistry, chair shana stoddard , department of chemistry bayly wheeler , department of biologyprograms of study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53 24 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 pm printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/biochemistry-and-molecular- biology/biochemistry-and-molecular-biology-program honors in biochemistry and molecular biology 1. courses required: those listed for the b. s. degree in biochemistry and molecular biology as well as the honors tutorial (bmb 495 and bmb 496). 2. permission of the biochemistry and molecular biology program committee. 3. an original investigation of some problem in the area of biochemistry and molecular biology. this project is usually related to work being carried out by members of the faculty affiliated with the biochemistry and molecular biology major. the project may also be carried out off campus, with the careful guidance of a bmb faculty member liaison for the project. 4. a credible thesis must be presented at the end of the project. the honors project and thesis must be approved by the student’s honors committee, which should be comprised of at least three members of the faculty, two affiliated with the biochemistry and molecular biology major, and one from outside of the program. printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/biochemistry-and-molecular- biology/honors-biochemistry-and-molecular-biology requirements for a major in biochemistry and molecular biology leading to the b.s. degree courses required for the bmb major that are appropriate for the fall semester of the first year include chemistry 120-125l and biology 130-131l. students considering taking both chemistry 120-125l and biology 130-131l in the fall semester of the first year should consult a bmb advisor. a total of sixty-two to sixty-three (62-63) credits as follows: 1. chemistry 120-125l (foundations in chemistry), 211, 212-212l (organic chemistry with lab), and 240-240l (analytical chemistry with lab) 2. biology 130-131l (biology i with lab) and biology 140-141l (biology ii with lab) 3. biology 307 (cell biology) 4. biology 325-325l (molecular biology with lab)programs of study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53 25 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 pm 5. chemistry 315 (biochemistry) 6. bmb 310 (methods in biochemistry and cell biology) 7. bmb 485 or 486 (senior seminar) 8. any one of the following: computer science 141 (programming fundamentals) or math 122 (integral calculus) or math 214 (math modeling) or one course in probability and statistics. courses that would be appropriate in the area of probability and statistics include math 111, math 211, psychology 211, economics 290. 9. two of the following courses; at least one must have a laboratory: a. elective courses with laboratory biol 204-204l (animal development with lab) biol 301-301l (microbiology with lab) biol 304-304l (genetics with lab) or biol 305-305l (population genomics with lab) biol 376-376l (molecular and cellular neuroscience with lab) chem 325 (computational protein design and engineering) chem 406 (advanced analytical chemistry) chem 411-411l (medicinal & computational chemistry with lab) bmb 451 or 452 (4 credits only may satisfy one elective; research with an affiliated faculty member or must be approved by the bmb committee) b. elective courses without a laboratory biol 330 (virology/immunology) biol 380 (topics in biomedical science) chem 311 (physical chemistry) chem 416 (mechanisms of drug action) no more than one of the three courses listed in items #3-5 above may be transferred into rhodes from another institution to satisfy the requirements for the bmb major. students seeking a double major must have at least four courses listed in items #3 through #9 for the bmb major that are not used to satisfy requirements for the other major. in order for a student to have their b.s. degree in bmb accredited by the american society for biochemistry and molecular biology (asbmb), the student must complete the major requirements and pass the asbmb certification exam. printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/biochemistry-and-molecular-programs of study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53 26 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 pm biology/requirements-major-biochemistry-and-molecular biology as one of the most popular majors on campus, the biology department offers students opportunities to learn about all levels of biology, as well as modern methods of research and investigation. the study of biology prepares students for a wide range of career options as students can choose to concentrate their studies in general biology (gb), integrative biology (ib), environment, ecology, and behavior (eeb), and biomedical sciences (bms). printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/biology biology: faculty and staff professors michael d. collins . 2010. b.s., university of arizona; m.s., florida state university; ph.d., university of tennessee. (ecology, ornithology, wildlife biology) terry w. hill . 1978. b.a., university of south florida; m.s., ph.d., university of florida. (cell biology, microbiology, biology of fungi.) david kabelik . 2009. h.b.sc., university of toronto; ph.d., arizona state university. (neuroscience, endocrinology, physiology, animal behavior.) mary e. miller . 2001. b.a., university of tennessee at knoxville; ph.d., university of virginia. (genetics, microbiology, cancer biology, cell biology.) associate professors sarah boyle . 2009. b.a., college of william and mary; ph.d., arizona state university. (ecology, conservation biology, tropical field biology.) kelly a. dougherty. 2014. b.s., west chester university; ph.d., thomas jefferson university. (neuroscience, biophysics, neurophysiology.) jonathan fitz gerald . 2007. b.s., university of california at irvine; ph.d., university of chicago. (plant biology, development.) elaine r. frawley . 2016. b.a., ph.d., washington university in st. louis. (microbiology, metabolism, bacterial physiology.) bayly s. wheeler . 2015. b.s.e., university of michigan; ph.d., duke university. (molecular biology, genetics, genomics, microbiology.) assistant professorsprograms of study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53 27 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 pm kelly diamond . 2022. b.s., university of central florida; m.s., ph.d. clemson university. (morphology, machine learning, biomechanics) liam hunt . 2022. b.s., ph.d. the university of melbourne, australia. (molecular biology, skeletal muscle disease) kathryn a. lecroy . 2023. b.s., birmingham-southern college; m.s. university of pittsburgh; ph.d. university of virginia. (conservation biology, wild bee diversity, disease ecology, community science) sydney moyo . 2020. b.s., africa university; m.s. university of zimbabwe; rhodes university, ph.d. (zoology, invertebrate biology, entomology.) tanushree pandit . 2019. b.s., m.s., rtm nagpur university; ph.d., umea university. (developmental neuroscience.) qian shen . 2020. b.e, china agricultural university; m.s., mississippi state university; ph.d. ohio state university (microbiology, fungal pathogenesis.) visiting assistant professors james engman . 2023. b.s. kent state university; b.s., m.s., western illinois university; ph.d. university of cincinnati. alix matthews . 2023. b.s. rhodes college; m.s., ph.d. arkansas state university. staff tangela allgood . 2022. biology department administrative assistant. jordy gentry . 2021. biology department lab supervisor for the frazier jelke science center. b.s., university of memphis. justin a. porter . 2017. biology department lab manager for robertson hall. b.s., m.s., university of georgia. printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/biology/biology-faculty-and-staff requirements for major in biology leading to the b.s. degree requirements for major in biology leading to the b.s. degree a total of fifty-six to fifty-nine (56-59) credits as follows: 1. biol 130-131l (biology i with laboratory) and biol 140-141l (biology ii with laboratory).programs of study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53 28 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 pm 2. chem 120-125l (foundations of chemistry with laboratory) and chem 211 (organic chemistry i). 3. one statistics course from the following list: econ 290 (statistical analysis for economics and business) math 111 (applied statistics for liberal arts) math 211 (applied statistics for the formal and natural sciences) psyc 211 (statistical methods). 4. one computational course from the following list: comp 141 (computer science i: programming fundamentals) or above intd 225 (geographic information systems [gis]) math 115 (applied calculus) math 122 (integral calculus) math 214 (discrete mathematical modeling with biological applications). 5. biol 485 or 486 (senior seminar). 6. six upper-level courses (300 level or above) defined by concentration areas. at least four of the six upper level courses required must have an associated lab experience. of the four required lab experiences, three of them must be chosen from the appropriate designated concentration courses. four credits of biol 451 or 452 (research in biology) combined can satisfy one upper-level course with lab requirement. normally, at least four of the six upper level courses used to satisfy these requirements must be taken within the biology department at rhodes. courses taught outside the department that can satisfy upper level course requirements for the biology major, subject to the limit indicated above, include certain courses approved by the department chair for transfer credit and the following: chem 315 (biochemistry); with bmb 310 (methods in biochemistry and cell biology) may satisfy a course with lab requirement, chem 416 (mechanisms of drug action), and neur 270 (neuroscience). courses taught outside the department may also be available through the woods hole semester in environmental sciences program: envs 260 (aquatic ecosystem analysis), envs 270 (terrestrial ecosystem analysis), and biol 280 (microbial methods in ecology). additional courses can be taken through our partnership with the gulf coast research laboratory including marine biology, barrier island ecology, marine ichthyology, marine mammalogy, marine invertebrate zoology, coastal herpetology, and parasites of marine animals. offerings change each year. in addition to month-long summer courses, some are available as mini-courses during january and may. students interested in eitherprograms of study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53 29 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 pm program should contact the biology department for details. 7. each student will choose only one of the following four concentrations in the biology major: ‘general biology’, ‘integrative biology’, ‘ecology, evolution, behavior’ or ‘biomedical sciences’. the biology concentrations and associated class options: general biology (biol:gb) upper level biology course requirements: six upper level biology courses; at least four must have an associated lab. integrative biology (biol:ib) upper level biology course requirements: six of the following upper level biology courses including four courses with lab; at least one course must be taken from each of the following three categories; at least one lab requirement must come from each category. 1. genetics, cells, and molecules biol 304: genetics with lab biol 301: microbiology with lab biol 305: population genomics with lab biol 307: cell biology biol 325: molecular biology with lab biol 330: virology/immunology biol 365: advanced topics in biology (depends on topic) biol 376: molecular and cellular neuroscience with lab biol 380: topics in biomedical science chem 315: biochemistry chem 416: mechanisms of drug action 2. development, physiology, anatomyprograms of study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53 30 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 pm biol 302: parasitology biol 308: mycology with lab biol 350: comparative vertebrate morphology with lab biol 340: animal physiology with lab biol 355: animal development with lab biol 360: histology with lab biol 365: advanced topics in biology (depends on topic) biol 375: neuroendocrinology with lab biol 377: developmental neuroscience with lab neur 270: neuroscience 3. ecology and evolution biol 300: evolution with lab biol 309: the science of climate change biol 311: invertebrate biology with lab biol 312: environmental issues in southern africa biol 314: environmental field study in namibia biol 315: ecology with lab biol 316: freshwater ecology with lab biol 318: entomology with lab biol 320: conservation biology with lab biol 321: animal behavior with lab biol 322: plant diversity & evolution with lab biol 345: ornithology with labprograms of study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53 31 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 pm biol 348: wildlife biology with lab biol 365: advanced topics in biology (depends on topic) envs 260: aquatic ecosystem (woods hole) envs 270: terrestrial ecosystem (woods hole) ecology, evolution, behavior (biol:eeb) upper level biology course requirements: six upper level biology courses; at least four must come from the following list. at least three of the four lab requirements must come from this category. up to two courses may be taken from additional upper level biology (300 or above) course offerings . biol 300: evolution with lab biol 302: parasitology biol 304: genetics with lab biol 308: mycology with lab biol 309: the science of climate change biol 311: invertebrate biology with lab biol 312: environmental issues in southern africa biol 314: environmental field study in namibia biol 315: ecology with lab biol 316: freshwater ecology with lab biol 318: entomology with lab biol 320: conservation biology with lab biol 321: animal behavior with lab biol 322: plant diversity & evolution with lab biol 345: ornithology with labprograms of study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53 32 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 pm biol 348: wildlife biology with lab biol 350: comparative vertebrate morphology with lab biol 365: advanced topics in biology (depends on topic) envs 260: aquatic ecosystem (woods hole) envs 270: terrestrial ecosystem (woods hole) biomedical science (biol:bms) upper level biology course requirements: six upper level biology courses; at least four must come from the following list. at least three of the four lab requirements must come from this category. up to two courses may be taken from additional upper level biology (300 level or above) course offerings . biol 300: evolution with lab biol 301: microbiology with lab biol 302: parasitology biol 304: genetics with lab biol 305: population genomics with lab biol 307: cell biology biol 308: mycology with lab biol 325: molecular biology with lab biol 330: virology/immunology biol 340: animal physiology with lab biol 350: comparative vertebrate morphology with lab biol 355: animal development with lab biol 360: histology with labprograms of study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53 33 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 pm biol 365: advanced topics in biology (depends on topic) biol 375: neuroendocrinology with lab biol 376: molecular and cellular neuroscience with lab biol 377: developmental neuroscience with lab biol 380: topics in biomedical science neur 270: neuroscience chem 315: biochemistry chem 416: mechanisms of drug action satisfying the prerequisites for courses is the student’s responsibility; however, in special circumstances, students with advance permission of the instructor may enroll in a course without meeting prerequisites. courses and accompanying laboratories of the same name are linked co-requisites and must be taken together unless approved by petition to the department. unless otherwise noted, courses meet under the standard class schedule and laboratories meet for a three- hour period; laboratories also often require further project work outside the scheduled lab time. students seeking a double major must have at least four upper-level courses for the biology major that are not used to satisfy requirements for the other major. printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/biology/requirements-major- biology-leading-bs-degree major essay when declaring a major in biology, students must submit an essay electronically for approval by their major advisor. this essay should be 300 words or less and should include: 1. a statement of your goals in pursuing a biology major 2. a statement of your goals in pursuing a specific concentration in biology 3. what areas of biology represent your greatest interestsprograms of study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53 34 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 pm 4. possible links between biology coursework and other courses taken or to be taken 5. what other areas of biology will help you to become more well-rounded in the field of biology. printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/biology/major-essay honors in biology 1. courses required: those listed for the b. s. degree with a major in biology as well as the biology honors tutorial (biol 495 and 496). 2. students seeking to do honors research must have a minimum gpa of 3.5 (cumulative and in the major) at the time of application and be on track to graduate at the end of the academic year in which the honors research is carried out. 3. an original investigation of some problem in the area of biology, usually related to research being carried out by a member of the biology department, is required. the honors research may be conducted outside of the department, with department approval and the careful guidance of a biology faculty member liaison for the project. 4. a creditable thesis must be presented at the end of the project. the honors project and thesis must be approved by the student’s honors committee and the project must follow the department and college guidelines and schedule for honors work. in addition, the honors candidate should present the work publically at a scientific meeting on- or off-campus. students interested in honors research should consult with their faculty research supervisor at rhodes. printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/biology/honors-biology business the business department teaches students both theories and methods, as well as the broader social and historical perspectives of business practices in accounting, finance, marketing, and management. printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/business business: faculty and staffprograms of study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53 35 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 pm business: faculty and staff associate professors wendy bailey. 2021. b.a., washington university st louis; m.b.a., university of colorado boulder; and ph.d., university of pittsburgh (accounting) dee birnbaum. 1991. b.a., state university of new york at stony brook; m.b.a., baruch college; m. phil. and ph.d., city university of new york. (general management, human resource management) kayla d. booker. 2015. co-director, m.s. in accounting program. b.b.a., m.p.a., and ph.d., jackson state university. cpa. (accountancy) sujan m. dan. 2013. b.tech, kerala university, india; m.s. and ph.d., texas a&m university. (marketing) denis khantimirov. 2015. b.a., north ossetian state university, russia; m.b.a., university of nevada, las vegas; ph.d., old dominion university. (marketing) kelly p. weeks. 2015. b.a., rhodes college; m.a. and ph.d., university of memphis. (management) andrey zagorchev. 2013. co-director, m.s. in accounting program. b.s., m.s., plovdiv university, bulgaria; m.b.a., wright state university; ph.d., lehigh university. (finance) assistant professors jade o. planchon. 2012. b.a., rhodes college; m.b.a., columbia university; 2018. ph.d., university of memphis. (finance) part-time assistant professors milton l. lovell. 2003. b.s. and j.d., university of mississippi. ll.m., new york university school of law. cfo and general counsel, nexair, llc. (accountancy, taxation) instructors sarah a. cate. b.a., hendrix college; m.s. university of memphis. (accountancy). part-time instructorsprograms of study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53 36 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 pm david hopkins. 2022. b.p.a., mississippi state university. (accounting). steve zatechka. 2018. b.s. and m.s., university of nebraska-lincoln; m.b.a., university of memphis; ph.d., university of nebraska medical center; chief science officer, us biologic. (entrepreneurship). entrepreneur in residence eric mathews. 2023. b.s., rhodes college, m.s., university of memphis. (entrepreneurship). staff hannah guess. 2020. departmental assistant. b.a. and m.a., university of memphis. curriculum the department of business offers both a major and minor in business. within the major, students can elect to take courses in accounting, finance, marketing, and management. master of science in accounting. a more concentrated study of accounting may be undertaken in the m.s. in accounting program offered by the department of business. students who have completed an undergraduate degree in the department of business and/or have taken the appropriate accounting courses can finish the requirements of the m.s. in accounting degree in two additional semesters of study. printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/business/business-faculty-and- staff honors in business honors in business 1. meet requirements for a major in business. 2. business 495-496. 3. a substantial research paper in an area of special interest to the candidate. 4. an oral examination on the research paper. all honors students must meet eligibility criteria established for the honors program.programs of study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53 37 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 pm printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/business/honors-business requirements for a major in business requirements for a major in business a total of forty-six (46 ) credits as follows: 1. business 241 financial accounting, 243 managerial accounting, 351 corporate financial management, 361 management of organizations, 371 marketing management, 486 senior seminar in business. 2. economics 100 introduction to economics. 3. economics 290 statistical analysis for economics or mathematics 211 applied statistics for the formal & natural sciences. 4. math 115 applied calculus, 116 calculus with business applications or 122 integral calculus. 5. two courses from one of the following areas and one course from one of the remaining areas: a. accounting: business 341 intermediate accounting i, 342 intermediate accounting ii. b. finance: business 452 cases in managerial finance, 454 international financial management/financial analytics. c. management: business 463 international management, 466 personnel and human resource management, 467 diversity and inclusion in the workplace. d. marketing: business 472 marketing analytics and metrics , 473 international marketing, 474 services marketing. e. business 481 business ethics and social responsibility. f. business 483 advanced international business cases. g. business 484 social impact of business in south africa. 6. recommended: business 460 internship; philosophy 210 logic; computer science 141 computer science i, 142 computer science ii; media studies 240 public speaking.programs of study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53 38 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 pm printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/business/requirements-major- business requirements for a minor in business a total of twenty-eight (28) credit hours as follows: 1. business 241 financial accounting, 243 managerial accounting, 351 corporate financial management, 361 management of organizations, 371 marketing management. 2. economics 100 introduction to economics. 3. economics 290 statistical analysis for economics and business or mathematics 211 applied statistics for the formal & natural sciences. printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/business/requirements-minor- business chemistry the chemistry department prepares students for careers in the chemical sciences, forensics, health professions, industry, research, and stem education. students will receive training in modern, interdisciplinary chemistry and instrumentation, as well as develop essential skills for further education in chemical, medical, engineering, law, and other health-related fields. the department is certified by the american chemical society as complying with its requirements for the professional training of chemists. printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/chemistry chemistry: faculty and staff professors loretta jackson-hayes. 2003. james daughdrill professor in the natural sciences. b.s., tougaloo college; ph.d., university of tennessee. (pharmacology.)programs of study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53 39 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 pm darlene m. loprete. 1990. chair. b.a., clark university; ph.d., university of rhode island. (biochemistry.) jon russ. 2004. b.s., corpus christi state university; ph.d., texas a&m university. (analytical chemistry.) professor emeritus david y. jeter. 1973. b.s., texas a&m university-commerce; ph.d., university of north carolina, chapel hill. (inorganic chemistry.) associate professors william eckenhoff. 2015. b.s., allegheny college; ph.d. duquesne university (inorganic chemistry). larryn w. peterson. 2011. b.a., carroll college; ph.d., university of southern california. (organic chemistry.) roberto de la salud bea. 2010. b.s. and m.s., university of valencia, spain. ph.d., university of nebraska. (organic chemistry.) shana stoddard. 2015. b.s., prairie view a&m university; m.ed., freed-hardeman university; ph.d., university of mississippi. (biochemistry.) assistant professors kimberly brien. 2012. b.s., texas lutheran university; m.s., baylor university; ph.d.,texas christian university. (organic chemistry.) kavita gaur. 2022. b.s., agra, u.p., india; m.s., agra, u.p., india; ph.d., university of puerto rico (bioinorganic chemistry.) dana horgen. 2014. b.s., saint olaf college; ph.d., baylor university (organic chemistry.) dhammika s. muesse. 2007. b.s. and m.s., university of colombo; ph.d., university of memphis. (analytical chemistry.) miguel angel méndez polanco. 2021. bsc, universidad autónoma de puebla (méxico); ph.d., university of pennsylvania. (physical chemistry.) chemistry instrument technician and chemical safety officer karen mosely. b.s., university of memphis; m.s. university of memphis. printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/chemistry/chemistry-faculty-and- staff honors in chemistryprograms of study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53 40 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 pm 1. courses listed for the b.s. degree. 2. chemistry 495 and 496 (eight credits minimum). 3. an original investigation of some problem in chemistry or biochemistry, usually related to research being carried on by a member of the department, is required. a thesis must be presented at the end of the project. the honors project and its outcome must be approved by the student’s honors committee. 4. a public presentation on the honors work is required by the department. printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/chemistry/honors-chemistry requirements for certification by the american chemical society 1. chemistry 120/125l, 211, 212/212l, 240/240l, 311/312l, 315, 408/408l, 415. 2. at least 2 additional courses from the following list: 312, 406, 411/411l, 416. 3. physics 109-110 or 111-112; 113l-114l. 4. mathematics 122. students can start in 112 and then take 122. 5. at least four credits of research (chemistry 451 and/or 452). this major track may be of interest to students interested in attending graduate school or employment in chemistry related fields. the track is designed by the american chemical society (acs) to provide students with lecture and laboratory experiences in the five foundational areas of chemistry (analytical, biochemistry, inorganic, organic and physical) in both breadth and depth. printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/chemistry/requirements- certification-american-chemical-society requirements for a major in chemistry leading to the b.s. degree 1. chemistry 120/125l, 211, 212/212l, 240/240l, 311/312l. 2. at least 3 additional courses from the following list: 206, 312, 315, 325, 406, 408/408l, 411/411l, 416, 422, 451-452 (total of four credits).programs of study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53 41 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 pm 3. physics 109-110 or 111-112; 113l-114l. 4. mathematics 122. students can start in 112 and then take 122. 5. chemistry 486. students interested in graduate school should consider taking the following courses: chemistry 315, 406, 408/408l, and 451-452. printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/chemistry/requirements-major- chemistry-leading-bs-degree requirements for a minor in chemistry six courses as follows: 1. 120/125l, 211, 212/212l, 240/240l. 2. two additional chemistry courses of which one must be at the 200-level or above and the other must be 300-level or above. both courses must be at least 4-credits. science is increasingly interdisciplinary. students who wish to pursue careers and/or further study in biology, neuroscience, environmental science, physics or other sciences may see the need to have a firm background in chemistry as well. by declaring a minor, students may work with a minor advisor who will help these students find and define a course of study that can complement their future plans. students looking to pursue a career in patent or intellectual property or patent law can also benefit by having a chemistry minor. printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/chemistry/requirements-minor- chemistry requirements for a pre-engineering certificate chemistry majors planning for graduate work and/or careers in chemical engineering can earn the pre-engineering certificate from rhodes by completing the following courses. 1. physics 111-112* and 220. 2. physics 304 or 307. 3. mathematics 223 and 251.programs of study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53 42 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 pm 4. computer science 141. 5. one approved experiential component, such as: 4 credits of research*, summer research or an engineering-related internship. *also fulfills major requirements note: students interested in pursuing entry level chemical or biomedical engineering work immediately after college may wish to consider the dual degree options through the academic partnerships for engineering at rhodes. https://catalog.rhodes.edu/educational- program/academic-partnerships printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/chemistry/requirements-pre- engineering-certificate requirements for a major in chemistry, drug design track 1. chemistry 120/125l, 211, 212/212l, 240/240l, 311/312l, 315, 411/411l, 415, 416. 2. mathematics 122. students can start in 112 and then take 122. 3. physics 109-110 or 111-112; 113l-114l. this major track may be of interest to students pursuing careers in pharmaceutical or medicinal chemistry, medicine, pharmacy, or other health professions. research opportunities in related areas may be available to students in the chemistry department who want to pursue this major track. printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/chemistry/requirements-major- chemistry-drug-design-track computer science the department of computer science offers students numerous opportunities to develop quantitative reasoning, critical-thinking, problem-solving, and communication skills through its curriculum and extracurricular activities. printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/computer-science computer science: faculty and staffprograms of study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53 43 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 pm professors betsy williams sanders . 2007. b.s., millsaps college; m.s. and ph.d., vanderbilt university. (computer graphics and animation.) associate professors phillip b. kirlin . 2012. b.s., university of maryland; m.s. and ph.d., university of massachusetts amherst. (artificial intelligence, machine learning, music informatics.) d. brian larkins . 2015. b.s., m.s., ph.d., the ohio state university. (parallel programming, programming languages, network security.) catherine e. welsh . 2013. b.s., ursinus college; m.s., lehigh university; ph.d., university of north carolina-chapel hill. (bioinformatics, computational genetics.) assistant professors marion lang. 2019. b.s., indiana university of pennsylvania; m.s., ph.d., the ohio state university. (specification and verification of distributed systems, large-scale distributed data processing and analytics systems.) matthew superdock. 2021. b.s., princeton university; ph.d., carnegie mellon university. (type theory, formal verification, and automated reasoning) printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/computer-science/computer- science-faculty-and-staff honors in computer science requirements: 1. fulfillment of the requirements for the major. 2. honors tutorial: 495 and 496. 3. approval by the department is required.programs of study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53 44 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 pm students should consult with a faculty member about their intentions to pursue an honors project before the end of their junior year. printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/computer-science/honors- computer-science planning a major students considering a major in computer science should contact the chair or another member of the department as early as possible to ensure progress is being made toward the major. more information can be found at the department’s web site: www.rhodes.edu/mathcs . for reasonable progress toward a major in computer science, a student should begin the introductory programming sequence (computer science 141, 142, 241) in the first year. in the second year, a student should complete computer science 172 in fall and computer science 231 in the spring. the mathematics requirements should be completed by the end of the third year. printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/computer-science/planning-major requirements for a major in computer science a total of fifty-six (56) credits as follows: 1. computer science 141, 142, 172, 231, 241, 251, 485, and 486. 2. one of mathematics 112, 115, 116, 122, 211, 214, 223 3. at least one course from each of the three following groups: 1. theory: computer science 350, 355 2. systems: computer science 315, 330, 331, 340, 360, 380, 385 3. applications: computer science 320, 325, 342, 345, 370, 372 4. two additional four-credit computer science courses numbered above 300, excluding 460, 495, and 496. printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/computer-science/requirements- major-computer-scienceprograms of study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53 45 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 pm requirements for a minor in computer science a total of twenty-four (24) credits as follows: 1. computer science 141, 142, 172, 241, and 251. 2. one additional four-credit computer science course numbered above 300. printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/computer-science/requirements- minor-computer-science economics the economics department, through its emphasis on logicaland quantitative analysis and communication skills, servesas prepares students interested in careers in business, law, medicine, government, non-profits, and international relations, as well as in academic roles. printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/economics economics: faculty and staff professors marshall k. gramm. 2000. chair. b.a., rice university; ph.d., texas a & m university. (applied microeconomics) c. nicholas mckinney. 2003. robert d. mccallum professor of economics. b.a., b.s., centenary college of louisiana; ph.d., texas a & m university. (experimental economics, applied microeconomics) associate professor courtney a. collins. 2013. b.a., rhodes college; ph.d., texas a&m university. (applied economics) teresa beckham gramm. 1999. b.a., agnes scott college; ph.d., university of north carolina-chapel hill. (international economics) assistant professors shameel ahmad. 2019. b.a., stanford university; m.sc. london school of economics; m.a., m.phil., ph.d., yale university. (economic history) bruno d. badia. 2015. b.a., federal university of rio grande do sul, brazil; m.a.,programs of study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53 46 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 pm federal university of minas gerais, brazil; ph.d., stony brook university. (industrial organization, game theory, applied microeconomics) jaqueline oliveira. 2016. b.a., federal university of minas gerais, brazil; m.sc., university of sao paulo, brazil; m.a., m.phil., ph.d., yale university. (development, labor, family and urban economics) staff hannah guess. 2020. departmental assistant. b.a. and m.a., university of memphis. printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/economics/economics-faculty- and-staff honors in economics 1. requirements for a major in economics. 2. economics 495-496 (instead of economics 486). 3. a substantial research paper in an area of special interest to the candidate. 4. an oral examination on the research paper. all honors students must meet eligibility criteria established for the honors program. printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/economics/honors-economics requirements for a major in economics a total of forty-eight (48) credits as follows: 1. economics 100, 201, 202, 290, 420, 486. 2. twenty additional credits in economics not including internship (econ 460, 461). 3. mathematics 115, 116 or 122. 4. students planning on attending graduate school should consider the mathematics and economics interdisciplinary major. in addition, interdisciplinary majors are offered in: • economics and business.programs of study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53 47 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 pm • economics and international studies. • mathematics and economics. • philosophy, politics and economics (an interdisciplinary program.) printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/economics/requirements-major- economics requirements for a minor in economics a total of twenty (20) credits in economics as follows: 1. economics 100, 201, 202. 2. eight additional credits in economics not including internship (econ 460, 461). printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/economics/requirements-minor- economics educational studies program vision educational studies at rhodes college strives to advance justice, democracy, and equity in underserved public schools, particularly in memphis, through our interdisciplinary programs, partnerships, scholarship, and advocacy. program mission educational studies and the educators and advocates we prepare engage theory and research while embedded in our schools and communities in order to promote understandings of problems and strategies for change that transform schools in the service of justice. printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/educational-studies background checks (clinical field experiences)programs of study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53 48 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 pm tennessee code annotated (tca 49-5-5610) requires all students entering state approved educator preparation programs to submit the result of a criminal background check to the institution. in compliance with this requirement, memphis shelby county schools (mscs) requires criminal background checks for rhodes college students who are placed in their schools for clinical experiences and internships with p – 12 students. the results will be sent to a rhodes college representative. for more information, contact the teacher licensure coordinator, dr. joseph kelly (kellyj@rhodes.edu). printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/educational-studies/background- checks-clinical-field-experiences educational studies: faculty and staff professors natalie k. person . 1994. chair. b.a. university of mississippi; m.s. and ph.d. university of memphis. (cognitive psychology: learning technologies; educational psychology) associate professors zachary casey . 2014. b.a.e. and m.a. arizona state university; ph.d. university of minnesota. (curriculum and instruction, multicultural education, critical pedagogy, teacher education) cara djonko-moore . 2018. b.a. northwestern university, m.a. university of pennsylvania, ph.d. temple university (early childhood, culturally responsive pedagogy) laura taylor . 2017. b.s. cornell university; m.ed. university of saint thomas; ph.d. university of texas at austin. (literacy teaching and learning; critical literacies; educational policy) assistant professors laura kelly . 2018. b.s. freed-hardeman university; m.ed. western governors university; ph.d. arizona state university. (elementary literacy, bilingual education) staff joseph kelly . 2018. teacher licensure coordinator. b.a. freed-hardeman university; m.div. harding school of theology; ph.d. southern seminary. amber lewis. administrative assistant.programs of study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53 49 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 pm printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/educational-studies/educational- studies-faculty-and-staff how to declare a major to declare a major in educational studies major, students should choose a professor in educational studies to be their major advisor. the advisor will approve the major essay, help students complete the degree requirements worksheet, and sign the declaration of major form. once students have met with their major advisor, they are required to submit: 1. two copies of the declaration of major form, filing one copy with the program chair and one copy with the registrar. (available from the registrar's office or on rhodes express online.) 2. the degree requirements worksheet, filing one copy with the program chair and one copy with the registrar. (available from the registrar's office or on rhodes express online.) 3. the final, advisor approved, major essay. email the essay as a word document to major_e.ymfk84k3izod0rl9@u.box.com so that it can be archived. the file name for the essay should be as follows: student’s last name, student’s first name, and graduation year. note: secondary licensure students will double major and will have two major advisors, one in educational studies and the other in their content area major. printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/educational-studies/how-declare- major licensure to teach students can earn elementary (grades k - 5) or secondary licensure (grades 6 -12) within the teaching and learning track of the educational studies major. the licensure program prepares students to teach in either elementary schools or middle and/or high schools in one of thirteen endorsement areas: american government, english, history, mathematics, biology, chemistry, physics, spanish, french, german, latin, russian, and chinese. the course of study for secondary licensure students is designed with guidance from faculty members in the discipline in which the student is being certified as well as with faculty in the educational studies program. all secondary licensure candidates are required to double major in educational studies and their endorsement discipline. elementaryprograms of study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53 50 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 pm licensure does not require a double major. students who are interested in teacher licensure should contact our teacher licensure coordinator in the early stages of the academic planning process. all licensure information including applications to the rhodes college teacher licensure program can be found on the program's website. licensure to teach is a function of state governments. institutions and agencies that offer licensure are approved by their respective state departments and boards of education. tennessee licensure is transferable to all 50 states; some states may require additional exams or content. a guide to certification reciprocity is available through certification map. https://certificationmap.com/states/reciprocity-disclaimer/ students wishing to teach in other states are advised to review the licensure requirements on the appropriate state's department of education website. printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/educational-studies/licensure- teach major essay when declaring a major in educational studies, students must complete an essay in which they address each of the questions in their respective track. the essay should be at least two paragraphs, with one paragraph dedicated to each question. teaching and learning track • what are the most important things for teachers and school personnel to be knowledgeable about in order to ensure the success of all of their students? • how will your work in this major equip you with this knowledge and experience? policy and social change track [select one of the following questions] • option 1: what roles can programs and activities for youth, outside of schools, play in creating a more democratic, participatory, humanizing society? how will your work in this major equip you with this knowledge and experience? • option 2: how can educational policy create more opportunities for more students to be successful learners within and beyond their experience(s) in schools? how willprograms of study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53 51 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 pm your work in this major equip you with this knowledge and experience? students will electronically submit the final, advisor approved, version of the essay as a word document by emailing it to major_e.ymfk84k3izod0rl9@u.box.com so that it can be archived. the file name for the essay should be as follows: student’s last name, student’s first name, and graduation year. note: application to the rhodes teacher licensure program is a separate application process. for information regarding admission in the licensure program, see https://www.rhodes.edu/departments/education/licensure-teach . printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/educational-studies/major-essay requirements for a major in educational studies students select one of two tracks: teaching & learning or policy & social change. all students complete 5 core requirement courses and all requirements for their selected track. a total of forty-four (44) credits is required a major with the teaching & learning track and a total of forty-five (45) credits is required for a major with the policy & social change track. core requirements (5 courses, 20 credits) 1. foundations of education - educ 201 2. educational psychology - educ 222 3. philosophy, policy, & equity (two of the following): 1. urban education - educ 220 2. african american experiences in u.s. schools - educ 225 3. history of education - educ 230 4. urban education policy - educ 240 [only for teaching & learning track] 5. philosophy of education - educ 270 6. race, class, gender, & sexuality in education - educ 320 7. education & immigration - educ 330 8. social & community contexts of education - educ 335programs of study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53 52 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 pm 9. some sections of educ 265 (when appropriate) 4. education senior seminar educ 485 track requirements track 1: teaching and learning (24 credits) 1. principles of curriculum and instruction - educ 355* 2. educational technologies - educ 300* 3. reading, writing, and urban schools - educ 310 4. content area teaching methods course ( one of the following, according to the student's curricular focus): 1. elementary literacies - educ 370* 2. methods of teaching secondary stem - educ 380* 3. methods of teaching secondary humanities - educ 390* 5. inclusive education - educ 410* 6. clinical field experiences - educ 360 (4 credits) 1. one credit must be taken co-requisite with each of the courses above marked with * . track 2: policy and social change (25 credits) 1. urban education policy - educ 240 2. qualitative methods in the social sciences - educ 395* 3. clinical field experience - educ 360 (1 credit; *co-requisite with educ 395) 4. one of the following: 1. the city - anso 241 2. social movements - anso 243 3. introduction to public policy - plaw 205 4. urban policy and polities - plaw 206programs of study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53 53 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 pm 5. race and ethnic politics - plaw 207 6. black political thought - plaw 230 7. health care policy - plaw 320 8. community psychology - psyc 330 9. nonprofits in the city - urbn 340 5. one additional 4-credit educ course 6. two additional 4-credit educational studies electives - see list below teacher licensure students completing an educational studies major on the teaching and learning track can also pursue elementary or secondary teacher licensure. teacher licensure requires completion of additional requirements, including: 1. edtpa preparation - educ 450 (1 credit, taken co-requisite with 1 credit of educ 360; typically taken semester prior to educ 499) 2. clinical practice (student teaching) - educ 499 (16 credits; typically completed either in the 8th semester or in a post-baccalaureate 9th semester) students pursuing secondary teacher licensure must double-major in the subject area plan to teach (e.g., english; biology). more information about teacher licensure can be found on the educational studies micro-site or by contacting dr. joseph kelly, teacher licensure coordinator (kellyj@rhodes.edu). educational studies elective courses (policy & social change track) • gender and society anso 231 • the city anso 241 • social movements anso 343 • gender and environment anso 273 • race and ethnicity in american society anso 331 • social class in the united states anso 335 • topics in anso 365 (when topics are relevant) • anthropology of social change anso 379 • racism anso 391 • sociology of violence and peace making anso 392programs of study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53 54 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 pm • social impact of business in south africa bus 284 • economics of education econ 265 • teaching english as a foreign language educ 160/161 • urban education educ 220 • african american experiences in schools educ 225 • history of education educ 230 • topics in education educ 265 • philosophy of education educ 270 • reading, writing, and urban schools educ 310 • race, class, gender, & sexuality in education educ 320 • education & immigration educ 330 • principles of curriculum and instruction educ 355 • directed research in education educ 451 • internship in education educ 460 • academic writing - engl 290 (4 credits) • advanced grammar engl 380 • study in african american literature engl 264 • african american literature engl 364 • advanced topics in film (when topics are relevant) engl 381 • junior seminar critical theory engl 385 • introductory seminars in history (when topics are relevant) hist 105 • selected topics in history (when topics are relevant) hist 205 • the united states in the twentieth century hist 233 • african american history hist 242 • civil rights movement hist 243 • history of memphis hist 248 • gender in the united states hist 249 • slavery in the united states hist 342 • civil rights in memphis hist 345 • african american activism hist 447 • government and politics of africa ints 251 • politics of social movements and grassroots organizing ints 332 • international human rights ints 336 • politics of migration ints 340 • justice, equality, and liberty phil 225 • philosophy of race and racism phil 220 • introduction to public policy plaw 205 • urban politics and policy plaw 206 • race and ethnic politics plaw 207programs of study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53 55 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 pm • black political thought plaw 230 • healthcare policy plaw 320 • infant and child development psyc 229 • community psychology psyc 330 • psychology of gender and sexuality psyc 280 • social issues in ethical & religious perspective rels 232 • theologies of liberation rels 259 • health equity internship rels 460 • intro to urban studies urbn 201 • social statistics urbn 220 • urban geography urbn 230 • principles of public health urbn 235 • intercultural knowledge & competence urbn 250 • special topics in urban studies (when topics are relevant) urbn 265 • urban field research urbn 362 • research methods in urban studies urbn 385 printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/educational-studies /requirements-major-educational-studies requirements for a minor in educational studies the minor in educational studies requires 24 credits: 1. educ 201. 2. twenty credits selected from the following courses: any educ course; econ 295 (2 credits); psyc 229, 230, 250, 330; urbn 250. printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/educational-studies /requirements-minor-educational-studies english from the classics to the contemporary, the department of english offers rhodes students a wide array of courses in literature, creative writing and film. students develop the ability to analyze and create with an emphasis on establishing strong writing skills. printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/englishprograms of study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53 56 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 pm english: faculty and staff professors gordon bigelow . 1998. a.b., brown university; m.a., university of new hampshire; ph.d., university of california, santa cruz. (nineteenth-century british and irish literature, literary theory.) marshall boswell . 1996. b.a., washington and lee university; m.a., washington university; ph.d., emory university. (american literature.) lori garner . 2009. b.a., hendrix college; m.a. university of arkansas; ph.d., university of missouri. (medieval studies, oral tradition.) scott newstok . 2007. b.a., grinnell college; ph.d., harvard university. (shakespeare, poetics. leslie petty . 2003. b.a., emory university; m.a., louisiana state university; ph.d., university of georgia. (american literature.) rashna wadia richards . 2008. b.a., narsee monjee college, mumbai, india; m.a., university of mumbai, india; m.a., west virginia university; ph.d., university of florida. (film studies.) associate professors amy benson . 2016. b.s., bowling green state university; m.f.a., university of alabama, tuscaloosa, al (creative non-fiction.) stephanie elsky . 2017. b.a., columbia university; m.a. and ph.d., university of pennsylvania. (early modern literature.) rebecca finlayson . 2001. director of college writing, director of the rhodes summer writing institute. b.a., smith college; m.a. and ph.d., emory university. (early modern british literature.) judith haas . 2002. b.a., wesleyan university; ph.d., university of california, santa cruz. (medieval studies, women’s studies.) jason richards . 2008. b.a., and m.a., california state university, long beach; ph.d., university of florida. (american literature, postcolonial literature.) seth rudy . 2010. b.f.a., new york university (film and television); m.a., new york university; ph.d., new york university. (eighteenth century english literature, british romanticism.) caki wilkinson . 2012. director of creative writing. b.a., rhodes college; m.f.a. (poetry) johns hopkins university; ph.d., university of cincinnati. (english and comparative literature.) staff lorie w. yearwood . 2006. departmental assistant. a.a.s., state technical institute atprograms of study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53 57 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 pm memphis. printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/english/english-faculty-and-staff honors in english 1. courses required: fulfillment of the requirements for a major in english; english 495-496. 2. a substantial, in-depth thesis. 3. approval by the english honors committee. printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/english/honors-english requirements for a major in english a total of eleven (11) courses (44 credits) as follows: track i: concentration in literature: i. english 285, normally taken by the end of the sophomore year. ii. one (1) course in four (4) of the following five (5) categories: • a. medieval (192, 218, 219, 260, 315, 319, 320, 321, 325) • b. renaissance/early modern (230, 322, 323, 324, 332, 335, 340) • c. 18th century (240, 260, 336, 343, 345, 350) • d. 19th century (261, 262, 350, 351, 355, 360, 361) • e. 20th-21st century (202, 241, 242, 245, 250, 251, 262, 316, 362, 363, 365, 366, 370, 382) iii. one (1) course in each of the following three (3) categories: • a. diversity and difference (219, 220, 224, 225, 242, 264, 275, 361, 364, 375) • b. in focus (191, 218, 220, 221, 225, 230, 235, 245, 250, 251, 264, 290, 315, 316, 321, 322, 323, 324, 325, 332, 335, 336, 343, 345, 359, 360, 363, 366, 375) • c. topics in literary theory (382, 385) iv. distribution attributes for special topics courses (190, 265, 380, 381) will vary depending on topic/section.programs of study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53 58 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 pm v. english 485, normally taken in the senior year. vi. up to two (2) special courses may count (e.g. creative writing courses, literature courses outside the department, etc.). vii. of the eleven required courses, a minimum of seven (7) must be numbered 300 or above. (english 460 does not fulfill this requirement.) viii. a course may carry up to two separate designations (for example, ii.a and iv or iii.b and iv). ix. fyws 151 and hum 201 courses taught by english faculty may count towards the eleven (11) required courses. track ii: concentration in literature and creative writing: i. english 285, normally taken by the end of the sophomore year. ii. one (1) course in category a, b, or c and one (1) course in category d or e: • a. medieval (192, 218, 219, 260, 315, 319, 320, 321, 325) • b. renaissance/early modern (230, 322, 323, 324, 332, 335, 340) • c. 18th century (240, 260, 336, 343, 345, 350) • d. 19th century (261, 262, 350, 351, 355, 360, 361) • e. 20th-21st century (202, 241, 242, 245, 250, 251, 262, 316, 362, 363, 365, 366, 370, 382) iii. one (1) course in each of the following three (3) categories: • a. diversity and difference (219, 220, 224, 225, 242, 264, 275, 361, 364, 375) • b. in focus (191, 218, 220, 221, 225, 230, 235, 245, 250, 251, 264, 290, 315, 316,programs of study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53 59 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 pm 321, 322, 323, 324, 325, 332, 335, 336, 343, 345, 359, 360, 363, 366, 375) • c. topics in literary theory (382, 385) iv. distribution attributes for special topics courses (190, 265, 380, 381) will vary depending on topic/section. v. english 485, normally taken in the senior year. vi. one (1) workshop course in each of the following four (4) categories: • a. english 210: introduction to creative writing • b. intermediate workshop i (300, 301, 305) • c. intermediate workshop ii, in a second genre (300, 301, 305) • d. advanced workshop (400, 401, 405) vii. of the eleven required courses, a minimum of seven (7) must be numbered 300 or above. (english 460 does not fulfill this requirement.) viii. a course may carry up to two separate designations (for example, ii.a and iv or iii.b and iv). ix. fyws 151 and hum 201 courses taught by english faculty may count towards the eleven (11) required courses. note: those considering the concentration in literature and creative writing should contact one of the creative writing professors for early advising, preferably by the end of the first year. printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/english/requirements-major- english requirements for a minor in creative writing a total of five (5) courses and twenty (20) credits as follows:programs of study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53 60 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 pm 1. english 210: introduction to creative writing 2. intermediate workshop i (300, 301, 305) 3. intermediate workshop ii, in a second genre (300, 301, 305) 4. advanced workshop (400, 401, 405) 5. one additional english course at the 200 level or above printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/english/requirements-minor- creative-writing requirements for a minor in english a total of 5 courses (20 credits) as follows: 1. two courses at the 190 or 200 level 2. three additional courses in english numbered 300 or higher. printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/english/requirements-minor- english requirements for the journalism certificate in english (16 credits) i. english 255: introduction to journalism (f2i) ii. two (2) courses from the following electives: first year writing seminar 155: the new yorker (f2s) english 206-207: creative publishing: the southwestern review english 305: intermediate workshop in non fiction english 316: advanced grammar english 405: advanced workshop in non fiction iii. english 460: internship (4 credits in relevant area) (f11) printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/english/requirements-journalism- certificate-englishprograms of study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53 61 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 pm the writing center the department oversees a writing service available to all rhodes students. student tutors are available daily to assist students with written work. printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/english/writing-center environmental studies and sciences the environmental studies & sciences program at rhodes offers an innovative curriculum that allows students to combine study in social sciences, humanities, natural sciences, and fine arts. printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/environmental-studies-and- sciences environmental studies and sciences: program committee raina belleau , department of art and art history erin bodine , department of mathematics sarah boyle , department of biology michael collins , department of biology kelly diamond , department of biology erin dolgoy , department of politics & law; department of philosophy william eckenhoff, department of chemistry (chair) james engman , department of biology elaine frawley , department of biology judith haas , department of english jeffrey jackson , department of history tait keller , department of history laura loth , department of modern languages, french sydney moyo , department of biology elizabeth pettinaroli , department of modern languages brooke schedneck , department of religious studies kate shields , environmental studies & sciences program rebecca tuvel , department of philosophy shaolu yu , urban studies program printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/environmental-studies-and-programs of study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53 62 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 pm sciences/environmental-studies-and-sciences-program honors in environmental sciences and environmental studies honors in environmental sciences 1. students must have a minimum gpa of 3.5 (cumulative and in the major) at the time of application and upon graduation. students typically enroll in envs research (envs 452) during the spring semester of their junior year, in preparation for submitting their honors proposal. 2. students must complete all courses needed for a b. s. degree with a major in environmental sciences. 3. students must complete the honors tutorial (envs 495 and 496), taken during the fall and spring semesters of senior year. 4. students must conduct an original investigation of an environmentally-focused topic, under the direct supervision of an envs faculty member. honors research may be conducted off campus, with envs program approval, but there must be supervision by an envs faculty member. 5. students must complete a formal research proposal by the start of the fall semester in the students’ senior year. the research project must be completed and approved by the supervising honors committee. this committee will consist of two envs faculty members and one faculty member not affiliated with the envs program. students must complete a scientific paper that adheres to the rhodes college guidelines for honors, and students must give an oral presentation of their research findings. -- honors in environmental studies 1. students must have a minimum gpa of 3.5 (cumulative and in the major) at the time of application and upon graduation. students typically enroll in envs research (envs 452) during the spring semester of their junior year, in preparation for submitting their honors proposal. 2. students must complete all courses needed for a b. a. degree with a major in environmental studies. programs of study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53 63 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 pm 3. students must complete the honors tutorial (envs 495 and 496), taken during the fall and spring semesters of senior year. 4. students must conduct an original investigation of an environmentally-focused topic, under the direct supervision of an envs faculty member. honors research may be conducted off campus, with envs program approval, but there must be supervision by an envs faculty member. 5. students must complete a formal research proposal by the start of the fall semester in the students’ senior year. the research project must be completed and approved by the supervising honors committee. this committee will consist of two envs faculty members and one faculty member not affiliated with the envs program. students must complete a research paper that adheres to the rhodes college guidelines for honors, and students must give an oral presentation of their research findings. printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/environmental-studies-and- sciences/honors-environmental-sciences-and-environmental policy on advanced placement credit students who have received a 5 on the advanced placement environmental science examination may count that credit as one introductory environmental sciences elective course in the environmental studies and sciences majors and minors. printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/environmental-studies-and- sciences/policy-advanced-placement-credit requirements for a major in environmental sciences a total of fifty four to fifty six (54-56) hours and one additional environmental experience as follows: 1. four introductory courses: 1. envs 150: environment and society. 2. three introductory courses from the following list: 1. biol 120(l): environmental science. 2. chem 120 and chem 125: foundations of chemistry.programs of study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53 64 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 pm 3. envs 106(l): introductory topics in environmental science. 4. envs 107: environment, conservation & policy issues. (global environmental challenges semester in ecuador) 5. envs 108: tropical biology. (global environmental challenges semester in ecuador) 6. envs 111(l): physical geology. 7. envs 170: rocky mountain field research. (at teton science schools) 8. math 214: discrete mathematical modeling with biological applications. 2. one statistics course from the following list: 1. econ 290: statistical analysis for economics and business. 2. math 111: applied statistics for liberal arts. 3. math 211: applied statistics for the formal & natural sciences 4. psyc 211: statistical methods. 3. four upper-level environmental sciences electives. three courses must contain a lab component. courses must come from at least two departments. additional courses may be designated by the environmental studies and sciences program. 1. prerequisite : intd 225 (gis) 1. envs 325: advanced gis and remote sensing. 2. prerequisites : envs 111 or biol 120 or chem 120 1. envs 206(l): topics in environmental science. 2. envs 211(l): geomorphology. 3. prerequisites : biol 120 and chem 120 or biol 130-131 and 140-141 1. biol 207(l): animal behavior. 2. biol 212: environmental issues in southern africa. 3. biol 260: science of climate change. 4. biol 311(l): invertebrate biology. 5. biol 315(l): ecology.programs of study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53 65 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 pm 6. biol 316(l): freshwater ecology. 7. biol 318(l): entomology. 8. biol 320(l): conservation biology. 9. biol 345(l): ornithology. 10. biol 348(l): wildlife biology. 11. biol 365: advanced topics in biology. (environmentally-related topic approved by the chair of the environmental studies and sciences program) 4. prerequisites : biol 120 and chem 120 or biol 130-131, biol 140-141, and chem 120 1. biol 280: microbial methods in ecology. (semester in environmental science program, woods hole) 2. envs 260: aquatic ecosystem analysis. (semester in environmental science program, woods hole) 3. envs 270: terrestrial ecosystem analysis. (semester in environmental science program, woods hole) 4. envs 450: independent research project. (semester in environmental science program, woods hole) 5. prerequisites : biol 130-131 and 140-141 1. biol 200(l): evolution. 2. biol 201(l): mycology. 3. biol 301(l): microbiology. 4. biol 302: parasitology 5. biol 322(l): plant diversity and evolution. 6. biol 350(l): comparative vertebrate morphology. 7. biol 365(l): advanced topics in biology. (environmentally-related topic approved by the chair of the environmental studies and sciences program)programs of study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53 66 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 pm 6. prerequisite : chem 120 1. chem 206: environmental chemistry. 2. chem 211: organic chemistry i. 7. prerequisite : chem 211 1. chem 240(l): analytical chemistry. 8. prerequisite : chem 240 1. chem 406: advanced analytical chemistry. 9. prerequisites : phys 111 and phys 112 1. phys 260: science of climate change 10. prerequisite : permission of instructor 1. envs 451-452: research. 2. envs 495-496: honors tutorial. 4. two environmental studies electives from the following list: 1. anso 201: human evolution. 2. anso 221: north of the rio grande: indigenous people of north america. 3. anso 251: nature and society. 4. anso 265: selected introductory topics in anthropology and sociology. (i.e. southern foodscapes, or other environmentally-related topic approved by the chair of the environmental studies and sciences program) 5. anso 271: ecological anthropology. 6. anso 273: gender and the environment. 7. anso 345: just food. 8. art 166: art and science. 9. chin 216: asian urbanization through cinema. 10. econ 100: introduction to economics 11. econ 349: environmental and natural resource economics. 12. envs 205: topics in environmental studies. (when approved by the chair ofprograms of study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53 67 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 pm the environmental studies and sciences program) 13. envs 207: linking the local to the global. (global environmental challenges semester in ecuador) 14. fren 442: francophone ecocriticism. 15. fyws 151: energy & waste. 16. fyws 151: consuming cultures & the problem of waste. 17. hist 105: disease & epidemics. 18. hist 201: history of environmental thought. 19. hist 207: global environmental history. 20. hist 209: natural disasters. 21. hist 307: nature and war. 22. hum 201: search for values. (bakewell's, colley's, jackson’s, loth's, or rogers' section only) 23. ints 220: global ecopolitics. 24. ints 221: population and national security. 25. ints 222: global health politics. 26. ints 340: the politics of migration. 27. ints 341: comparative ecopolitics. 28. phil 230: environmental ethics. 29. phil 315: philosophy of science & nature. 30. phil 332: animal ethics. 31. phil 401: ethics of captivity. 32. plaw 206: urban politics and policy. 33. rels 101/102: the bible and the environment.programs of study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53 68 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 pm 34. rels 101: the bible and the city. 35. rels 101/102: the bible and food. 36. rels 220: landscape and ecological spirituality. 37. rels 258. religion, nature, and environmental crisis. 38. rels 300: religion, nature, and the anthropocene. 39. rels 301: socially engaged buddhism. 40. span 318: ecocritical perspectives in latin america. 41. urbn 201: introduction to urban studies. 42. urbn 235: principles of public health. 43. urbn 265: asian urbanization through cinema. 44. urbn 320: globalization and cities. 45. urbn 365: intro to urban planning and design. 5. intd 225: geographic information systems. 6. envs 486: senior seminar. 7. experiential learning. each student in the major will be required to complete an environmentally-oriented experience in which they will have a substantial engagement with environmental issues outside the rhodes campus. there are several ways to complete this requirement, some of which are credit-bearing, but others are not. as with the college’s f11 requirement, students are not required to receive academic credit. the experiential learning component may be fulfilled by a course that counts as one of the electives for the major. students may enroll in one of the courses listed below (section a), or receive approval from the chair of the program for an alternative experience (section b). 1. students may enroll in one of the following: 1. arce 120: field research in environmental archaeology. 2. arce 450: archaeological field school. 3. biol 214: environmental field study in namibia. 4. envs 170: rocky mountain field research (at teton science schools).programs of study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53 69 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 pm 5. envs 207: linking the local to the global. (global environmental challenges semester in ecuador) 6. envs 450: independent research project. (semester in environmental science program, woods hole) 7. envs 451-452: research. 8. envs 460: internship in environmental studies and sciences. 9. envs 495-496: honors tutorial. 2. experiences other than those listed above must be approved by the chair of the environmental studies and sciences program and will require a substantial essay, evaluated by the chair of the program, which links the student’s experience with what they learned in the classroom. experiences may include organized service projects at rhodes with faculty or staff oversight (such as the summer service fellowships), or study abroad experiences approved by rhodes with significant environmental content as determined by the chair of the environmental studies and sciences program. n.b.: although not required for the major, comp 141: computer science i, is strongly recommended. printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/environmental-studies-and- sciences/requirements-major-environmental-sciences requirements for a major in environmental studies a total of fifty-two (52) credits and one additional environmental experience as follows: 1. two introductory courses: 1. envs 150: environment and society. 2. one introductory environmental sciences course from the following list (this course may not also be used to fulfill environmental sciences elective): 1. biol 105(l): global change biology. (other topics for biol 105 may not apply) 2. biol 110(l): biology for global citizens.programs of study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53 70 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 pm 3. biol 120: introduction to environmental science. 4. envs 106: introductory topics in environmental science. 5. envs 107: environment, conservation & policy issues. (global environmental challenges semester in ecuador) 6. envs 108: tropical biology. (global environmental challenges semester in ecuador) 7. envs 111: physical geology. 8. envs 170: rocky mountain ecology field research. (at teton science schools) 2. econ 100: introduction to economics. 3. six environmental studies electives from the following list; courses must come from at least two departments or programs; additional courses may be designated by the environmental studies and sciences program: 1. anso 201: human evolution. 2. anso 221: north of the rio grande: indigenous people of north america. 3. anso 251: nature and society. 4. anso 265: selected introductory topics in anthropology and sociology. (i.e. southern foodscapes, or other environmentally-related topic approved by the chair of the environmental studies and sciences program) 5. anso 271: ecological anthropology. 6. anso 273: gender and the environment. 7. anso 345: just food. 8. art 166. art and science. 9. chin 216: asian urbanization through cinema. 10. econ 349: environmental and natural resource economics. 11. envs 205: topics in environmental studies. 12. envs 207: linking the local to the global. (global environmental challengesprograms of study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53 71 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 pm semester in ecuador) 13. envs 451-452: research. 14. envs 495-496: honors tutorial. 15. fren 442: francophone ecocriticism. 16. fyws 151: energy & waste. 17. fyws 151: consuming cultures & the problem of waste. 18. hist 105: disease & epidemics. 19. hist 201: history of environmental thought. 20. hist 207: global environmental history. 21. hist 209: natural disasters. 22. hist 307: nature and war. 23. hum 201: search for values. (bakewell's, colley's, jackson’s, loth's, or rogers' section only) 24. ints 220: global ecopolitics. 25. ints 221: population and national security. 26. ints 222: global health politics. 27. ints 340: the politics of migration. 28. ints 341: comparative ecopolitics. 29. phil 230: environmental ethics. 30. phil 315: philosophy of science and nature. 31. phil 332: animal ethics. 32. phil 401: the ethics of captivity. 33. plaw 206: urban politics and policy. 34. plaw 380: environmental law and policy.programs of study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53 72 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 pm 35. rels 101/102: bible and the environment. 36. rels 101: bible and the city. 37. rels 101/102: bible and food. 38. rels 220: landscape and ecological spirituality. 39. rels 258. religion, nature, and environmental crisis. 40. rels 300: religion, nature, and the anthropocene. 41. rels 301: socially engaged buddhism. 42. span 318: ecocritical perspectives in latin america. 43. urbn 201: introduction to urban studies. 44. urbn 235: principles of public health. 45. urbn 265: asian urbanization through cinema. 46. urbn 320: globalization and cities. 47. urbn 365: intro to urban planning and design. 4. two additional environmental sciences courses from the following list; additional courses may be designated by the environmental studies and sciences program: 1. no prerequisites 1. biol 105(l): global change biology (other topics for biol 105 may not apply) 2. biol 110(l): biology for global citizens. 3. biol 120(l): introduction to environmental science. 4. chem 120 and chem 125: foundations of chemistry. 5. envs 106: introductory topics in environmental science. 6. envs 107: environment, conservation & policy issues. (global environmental challenges semester in ecuador) 7. envs 108: tropical biology. (global environmental challenges semester in ecuador)programs of study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53 73 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 pm 8. envs 111(l): physical geology. 9. envs 170: rocky mountain ecology field research. (at teton science schools) 10. math 115: applied calculus or a statistics course (econ 290 or math 111 or math 211 or psyc 211) or comp 141: computer science i. 11. math 214: discrete mathematical modeling with biological applications. 2. prerequisites : intd 225 (gis) 1. envs 325: advanced gis and remote sensing. 3. prerequisites : envs 111 or biol 120 or chem 120 1. envs 206(l): topics in environmental sciences. 2. envs 211(l): geomorphology. 4. prerequisites : biol 120 and chem 120 or biol 130-131 and 140-141 1. biol 207(l): animal behavior. 2. biol 212 : environmental issues in southern africa. 3. biol 260: science of climate change. 4. biol 311(l): invertebrate biology. 5. biol 315(l): ecology. 6. biol 316(l): freshwater ecology. 7. biol 318(l): entomology. 8. biol 320(l): conservation biology. 9. biol 345(l): ornithology. 10. biol 348(l): wildlife biology. 11. biol 365: advanced topics in biology. (environmentally-related topic approved by the chair of the environmental studies and sciences program) 5. prerequisites : biol 130-131 and 140-141 1. biol 200(l): evolution.programs of study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53 74 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 pm 2. biol 201(l): mycology. 3. biol 301(l): microbiology. 4. biol 302: parasitology. 5. biol 322(l): plant diversity and evolution. 6. biol 365(l): advanced topics in biology. (environmentally-related topic approved by the chair of the environmental studies and sciences program) 6. prerequisite : chem 120 1. chem 206: environmental chemistry. 2. chem 211: organic chemistry i. 7. prerequisite : chem 211 1. chem 240(l): analytical chemistry. 8. prerequisite : phys 111 and phys 112 1. phys 260: science of climate change. 5. intd 225: geographic information systems. 6. envs 486: senior seminar. 7. experiential learning. each student in the major will be required to complete an environmentally-oriented experience in which they will have a substantial engagement with environmental issues outside the rhodes campus. there are several ways to complete this requirement, some of which are credit-bearing, but others are not. as with the college’s f11 requirement, students are not required to receive academic credit. the experiential learning component may be fulfilled by a course that counts as one of the electives for the major. students may enroll in one of the courses listed below (section a), or receive approval from the chair of the program for an alternative experience (section b). 1. students may enroll in one of the following: ▪ arce 120: field research in environmental archaeology. ▪ arce 450: archaeological field school. ▪ biol 214: environmental field study in namibia. ▪ envs 170: rocky mountain ecology field research. (at teton scienceprograms of study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53 75 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 pm schools) ▪ envs 207: linking the local to the global. (global environmental challenges semester in ecuador) ▪ envs 451-452: research. ▪ envs 460: internship in environmental studies and sciences. ▪ envs 495-496: honor's tutorial. 2. experiences other than those listed above must be approved by the chair of the environmental studies and sciences program and will require a substantial essay, evaluated by the chair of the program, which links the student’s experience with what they have learned in the classroom. experiences may include organized service projects at rhodes with faculty or staff oversight (such as the summer service fellowships), or study abroad experiences approved by rhodes with significant environmental content as determined by the chair of the environmental studies and sciences program. printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/environmental-studies-and- sciences/requirements-major-environmental-studies requirements for a minor in environmental sciences a total of twenty-four to twenty-seven (24-27) credits and one environmental experience as follows: 1. envs 150: environment and society. 2. one of the following introductory courses in environmental sciences: 1. biol 120(l): introduction to environmental sciences. 2. chem 120 and chem 125: foundations of chemistry. 3. envs 106 or 106(l): introductory topics in environmental science. 4. envs 107: environment, conservation & policy issues. (global environmental challenges semester in ecuador) 5. envs 108: tropical biology. (global environmental challenges semester in ecuador)programs of study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53 76 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 pm 6. envs 111(l): physical geology. 7. envs 170: rocky mountain field research. (at teton science schools) 8. math 214: discrete mathematical modeling with biological applications. 3. three of the following environmental sciences courses from the following list. at least one must be taken from outside student’s major department or program. additional courses may be designated by the environmental studies and sciences program. 1. no prerequisites 1. biol 120(l): introduction to environmental sciences. 2. chem 120 and chem 125: foundations of chemistry. 3. envs 106 or 106(l): introductory topics in environmental science. 4. envs 111(l): physical geology. 5. envs 170: rocky mountain ecology field research. (at teton science schools) 6. intd 225: geographic information systems 7. math 115: applied calculus. 8. math 214: discrete mathematical modeling with biological applications. 2. prerequisite : intd 225 (gis) 1. envs 325: advanced gis and remote sensing. 3. prerequisites : envs 111 or biol 120 or chem 120 1. envs 206 or 206(l): topics in environmental science. 2. envs 211(l): geomorphology. 4. prerequisites : biol 120 and chem 120 or biol 130-131 and 140-141 1. biol 207(l): animal behavior. 2. biol 212: environmental issues in southern africa. 3. biol 260: science of climate change. 4. biol 311(l): invertebrate biology.programs of study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53 77 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 pm 5. biol 315(l): ecology. 6. biol 316(l): freshwater ecology. 7. biol 318(l): entomology. 8. biol 320(l): conservation biology. 9. biol 345(l): ornithology. 10. biol 348(l): wildlife biology. 11. biol 365: advanced topics in biology. (environmentally-related topic approved by the chair of the environmental studies and sciences program) 5. prerequisites : biol 130-131 and 140-141 1. biol 200(l): evolution. 2. biol 201(l): mycology. 3. biol 301(l): microbiology. 4. biol 302: parasitology 5. biol 322(l): plant diversity and evolution. 6. biol 365(l): advanced topics in biology. (environmentally-related topic approved by the chair of the environmental studies and sciences program) 6. prerequisites : biol 120 and chem 120 or biol 130-131, biol 140-141, and chem 120 1. biol 280: microbial methods in ecology. (semester in environmental science program, woods hole) 2. envs 260: aquatic ecosystem analysis. (semester in environmental science program, woods hole) 3. envs 270: terrestrial ecosystem analysis. (semester in environmental science program, woods hole) 4. envs 450: independent research project. (semester in environmental science program, woods hole)programs of study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53 78 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 pm 7. prerequisite : chem 120 1. chem 206: environmental chemistry. 2. chem 211: organic chemistry i. 8. prerequisite : chem 211 1. chem 240(l): analytical chemistry. 9. prerequisite : chem 240 1. chem 406: advanced analytical chemistry. 10. prerequisites : phys 111 and phys 112 1. phys 260: science of climate change 4. one additional environmental studies elective from the following list. additional courses may be designated by the environmental studies and sciences program. 1. anso 201: human evolution. 2. anso 221: north of the rio grande: indigenous people of north america. 3. anso 251: nature and society. 4. anso 265: selected introductory topics in anthropology and sociology. (i.e. southern foodscapes, or other environmentally- related topic approved by the chair of the environmental studies and sciences program) 5. anso 271: ecological anthropology. 6. anso 273: gender and the environment. 7. anso 345: just food. 8. art 166: art and science. 9. chin 216: asian urbanization through cinema. 10. econ 100: intro to economics 11. econ 349: environmental and natural resource economics. 12. envs 205: topics in environmental studies. (when approved by the chair of the environmental studies and sciences program) 13. envs 207: linking the local to the global. (global environmental challengesprograms of study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53 79 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 pm semester in ecuador) 14. fren 442: francophone ecocriticism. 15. fyws 151: energy & waste. 16. fyws 151: consuming cultures & the problem of waste. 17. hist 105: disease & epidemics. 18. hist 201: history of environmental thought. 19. hist 207: global environmental history. 20. hist 209: natural disasters. 21. hist 307: nature and war. 22. hum 201: search for values. (bakewell's, colley's, jackson’s, loth's, or rogers' section only) 23. ints 220: global ecopolitics. 24. ints 221: population and national security. 25. ints 222: global health politics. 26. ints 340: the politics of migration. 27. ints 341: comparative ecopolitics. 28. phil 230: environmental ethics. 29. phil 315: philosophy of science and nature. 30. phil 332: animal ethics. 31. phil 401: the ethics of captivity. 32. plaw 206: urban politics and policy. 33. plaw 380: environmental law and policy. 34. rels 101/102: bible and environment. 35. rels 101: bible and the city.programs of study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53 80 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 pm 36. rels 101/102: bible and food. 37. rels 220: landscape and ecological spirituality. 38. rels 258: religion, nature, and environmental crisis. 39. rels 300: religion, nature & the anthropocene. 40. span 318: ecocritical perspectives in latin america. 41. urbn 201: introduction to urban studies. 42. urbn 235: principles of public health. 43. urbn 265: asian urbanization through cinema. 44. urbn 320: globalization and cities. 45. urbn 365: intro to urban planning and design. 5. experiential learning. each student in the minor will be required to complete an environmentally-oriented experience in which they will have a substantial engagement with environmental issues outside the rhodes campus. there are several ways to complete this requirement, some of which are credit-bearing, but others are not. as with the college’s f11 requirement, students are not required to receive academic credit. the experiential learning component may be fulfilled by a course that counts as one of the electives for the minor. students may enroll in one of the courses listed below (section a), or receive approval from the chair of the program for an alternative experience (section b). 1. students may enroll in one of the following: ◦ arce 120: field research in environmental archaeology. ◦ arce 450: archaeological field school. ◦ biol 214: environmental field study in namibia. ◦ biol 451-452: research. ◦ envs 170: rocky mountain ecology field research. (at teton science schools) ◦ envs 207: linking the local to the global. (global environmental challenges semester in ecuador)programs of study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53 81 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 pm ◦ envs 451-452: research. ◦ envs 460: internship in environmental studies and sciences. ◦ envs 495-496: honor's tutorial. 2. experiences other than those listed above must be approved by the chair of the environmental studies and sciences program and will require a substantial essay, evaluated by the chair of the program, which links the student’s experience with what they have learned in the classroom. experiences may include organized service projects at rhodes with faculty or staff oversight (such as the summer service fellowships), or study abroad experiences approved by rhodes with significant environmental content as determined by the chair of the environmental studies and sciences program. n.b.: although not required for the minor, comp 141: computer science i, is strongly recommended. printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/environmental-studies-and- sciences/requirements-minor-environmental-sciences requirements for a minor in environmental studies a total of twenty-four to twenty-five (24-25) credits and one additional experiential environmental experience as follows: 1. envs 150: environment and society. 2. four of the following environmental studies courses from at least two departments or programs. additional courses may be designated by the environmental studies and sciences program. 1. anso 201: human evolution. 2. anso 221: north of the rio grande: indigenous people of north america. 3. anso 251: nature and society. 4. anso 265: selected introductory topics in anthropology and sociology. (i.e. southern foodscapes, or other environmentally-related topic approved by the chair of the environmental studies and sciences program)programs of study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53 82 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 pm 5. anso 271: ecological anthropology. 6. anso 273: gender and the environment. 7. anso 345: just food. 8. art 166: art and science. 9. chin 216: asian urbanization through cinema. 10. econ 100: intro to economics 11. econ 349: environmental and natural resource economics. 12. envs 205: topics in environmental studies. 13. envs 207: linking the local to the global. (global environmental challenges semester in ecuador) 14. envs 451-452: research. 15. fren 442: francophone ecocriticism. 16. fyws 151: energy & waste. 17. fyws 151: consuming cultures & the problem of waste. 18. hist 105: disease & epidemics. 19. hist 201: history of environmental thought. 20. hist 207: global environmental history. 21. hist 209: natural disasters. 22. hist 307: nature and war. 23. hum 201: search for values. (jackson’s, bakewell's, loth's, or rogers' section only) 24. intd 225: geographic information systems. 25. ints 220: global ecopolitics. 26. ints 221: population and national security.programs of study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53 83 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 pm 27. ints 222: global ecopolitics. 28. ints 340: the politics of migration. 29. ints 341: comparative ecopolitics. 30. phil 230: environmental ethics. 31. phil 315: philosophy of science and nature. 32. phil 332: animal ethics. 33. phil 401: the ethics of captivity. 34. plaw 206: urban politics and policy. 35. plaw 380: environmental law and policy. 36. rels 101/102: bible and environment. 37. rels 101: bible and the city. 38. rels 101/102: bible and food. 39. rels 220: landscape and ecological spirituality. 40. rels 258: religion, nature, and environmental crisis. 41. rels 300: religion, nature, and the anthropocene. 42. rels 301: socially engaged buddhism. 43. span 318: ecocritical perspectives in latin america. 44. urbn 201: introduction to urban studies. 45. urbn 235: principles of public health. 46. urbn 265: asian urbanization through cinema. 47. urbn 320: globalization and cities. 48. urbn 365: intro to urban planning and design. 3. one environmental sciences course from the following list. additional courses may be designated by the environmental studies and sciences program.programs of study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53 84 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 pm 1. no prerequisites 1. biol 105(l): global change biology. (other topics are not approved) 2. biol 110(l): biology for global citizens. 3. biol 120(l): introduction to environmental science. 4. chem 120 and chem 125: foundations of chemistry. 5. envs 106(l): introductory topics in environmental science. 6. envs 107: environment, conservation & policy issues. (global environmental challenges semester in ecuador) 7. envs 108: tropical biology. (global environmental challenges semester in ecuador) 8. envs 111(l): physical geology. 9. envs 170: rocky mountain ecology field research. (at teton science schools) 10. math 115: applied calculus or comp 141: computer science i or a statistics course (econ 290, math 111, math 211, or psyc 211). 11. math 214: discrete mathematical modeling with biological applications. 2. prerequisite : intd 225 (gis) 1. envs 325: advanced gis and remote sensing. 3. prerequisites : envs 111 1. envs 206(l): topics in environmental sciences. 2. envs 211(l): geomorphology 4. prerequisites : biol 120 and chem 120 or biol 130-131 and 140-141 1. biol 207(l): animal behavior. 2. biol 212: environmental issues in southern africa. 3. biol 260: science of climate change. 4. biol 311(l): invertebrate biology. 5. biol 315(l): ecology.programs of study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53 85 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 pm 6. biol 316(l): freshwater ecology. 7. biol 318(l): entomology. 8. biol 320(l): conservation biology. 9. biol 345(l): ornithology. 10. biol 348(l): wildlife biology. 11. biol 365: advanced topics in biology. (environmentally-related topic approved by the chair of the environmental studies and sciences program) 5. prerequisites : biol 130-131 and 140-141 1. biol 200(l): evolution. 2. biol 201(l): mycology. 3. biol 301(l): microbiology. 4. biol 302: parasitology. 5. biol 322(l): plant diversity and evolution. 6. biol 365(l): advanced topics in biology. (environmentally-related topic approved by the chair of the environmental studies and sciences program) 6. prerequisite : chem 120 1. chem 206: environmental chemistry. 2. chem 211: organic chemistry i. 7. prerequisite : chem 211 1. chem 240(l): analytical chemistry. 8. prerequisite : phys 111 and phys 112 1. phys 260: science of climate change. 4. experiential learning. each student in the minor will be required to complete an environmentally-oriented experience in which they will have a substantial engagement with environmental issues outside the rhodes campus. there are several ways to complete this requirement, some of which are credit-bearing, but others are not. as with the college’s f11 requirement, students are not required toprograms of study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53 86 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 pm receive academic credit. the experiential learning component may be fulfilled by a course that counts as one of the electives for the minor. students may enroll in one of the courses listed below (section a), or receive approval from the chair of the program for an alternative experience (section b). 1. students may enroll in one of the following: 1. arce 120: field research in environmental archaeology. 2. arce 450: archaeological field school. 3. biol 214: environmental field study in namibia. 4. biol 451-452: research (when environmentally focused) 5. envs 170: rocky mountain field research. (at teton science schools) 6. envs 207: linking the local to the global. (global environmental challenges semester in ecuador) 7. envs 451-452: research. 8. envs 460: internship in environmental studies and sciences. 2. experiences other than those listed above must be approved by the chair of the environmental studies and sciences program and will require a substantial essay, evaluated by the chair of the program, which links the student’s experience with what they have learned in the classroom. experiences may include organized service projects at rhodes with faculty or staff oversight (such as the summer service fellowships), or study abroad experiences approved by rhodes with significant environmental content as determined by the chair of the environmental studies and sciences program. printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/environmental-studies-and- sciences/requirements-minor-environmental-studies gender and sexuality studies gender and sexuality studies focuses on the ways in which gender and sexuality function as part of a dynamic system that shapes identity, structures knowledge, and determines the distribution of social and political power. printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/gender-and-sexuality-studiesprograms of study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53 87 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 pm gender and sexuality studies: affiliated faculty elizabeth bridges , department of modern languages zachary casey , department of education kathleen doyle , department of modern languages and literatures joy brooke fairfield , media studies program rhiannon graybill , department of religious studies, chair judith haas , department of english kimberly kasper , department of anthropology and sociology mona kreitner , department of music susan kus , department of anthropology and sociology han li , department of modern languages and literatures jeanne lopiparo , department of anthropology and sociology laura loth , department of modern languages and literatures shira malkin , department of modern languages and literatures david mccarthy , department of art joel parsons , director, clough hanson gallery evie perry , department of anthropology and sociology leslie petty , department of english rashna richards , department of english amy risley , department of international studies vanessa rogers , department of music brooke schedneck , department of religious studies elizabeth thomas , department of psychology and urban studies rebecca tuvel , department of philosophy marsha walton , department of psychology printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/gender-and-sexuality-studies /gender-and-sexuality-studies-affiliated-faculty requirements for a minor in gender and sexuality studies a total of twenty-four (24) credits as follows: 1. gender and sexuality studies 200. introduction to gender and sexuality studies. 2. gender and sexuality studies 400. feminist theory.programs of study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53 88 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 pm 3. four courses selected from the gender and sexuality studies curriculum. two of these courses must come from fields outside of one’s major. a list of gss- approved courses is updated and circulated every semester. students with questions are encouraged to contact the program director. for one of these four courses, students are encouraged to consider an internship or a directed inquiry. in order to receive academic credit for either the internship or the directed inquiry, students must write a proposal, in consultation with a faculty mentor and submit the proposal for approval by the director of gender and sexuality studies. printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/gender-and-sexuality-studies /requirements-minor-gender-and-sexuality-studies history the department of history at rhodes has a national reputation for preparing students to think critically about the historical forces that have shaped the world’s civilizations and cultures, to see the links between the past and the present, to become clear and effective writers and speakers, and to apply their knowledge as thoughtful citizens of the world. a wide range of course offerings, internships, fellowships, and research opportunities empower students to prepare for success in any career path which they choose and to find their place within the ongoing human story. decades’ worth of data gathered by the rhodes college alumni office shows how rhodes history alumni have succeeded in an amazingly wide range of occupations from filmmaking and urban planning to museums and teaching at the university level. our graduates work as members of the clergy, account executives, business managers, musicians, journalists, members of the us military, counselors, business analysts, marketers, librarians and archivists, coaches, it specialists, pilots, social workers, brokers, peace corps veterans, real estate developers, non-profit executives, artists, flight attendants, restauranteurs, land use planners -- and that’s just the beginning. history course numbering history 100-level courses. history courses at the 100 level are introductory topics designed with first-year students and sophomores in mind but are open to all students atprograms of study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53 89 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 pm rhodes who are interested in learning more about the topic or the study of history. history 105 is a writing intensive seminar focused on specific topics and fulfills one of the “written communication” requirements (f2i) under the foundations curriculum. these courses also fulfill the “historical forces” (f3) requirement. history 165 often fulfills foundations, but varies with the topic. students may repeat these courses for credit toward the history major and minor if the topic is different. history 200-level courses. these courses cover a broad chronological span or large geographical area and are introductory in nature. in addition to mastering course content, students will begin to learn to think historically through interpretive writing assignments that require them to draw from and engage with course material and readings. such courses are open to all students and normally fulfill the "historical forces" foundation (f3) requirement. several of these courses also fulfill other foundations, including "meaning and value" (f1), "institution and society" (f8), and "cultural perspectives" (f9). history 300-level courses. these courses focus on specific topics or time periods, while paying significant attention to historiography. students are required to make a significant oral presentation. sophomore standing is required for these courses, unless otherwise noted. several of these courses also fulfill foundation requirements, including "meaning and value" (f1), "literary texts" (f4), and "cultural perspectives" (f9). history 400-level courses. these courses focus on specific topics or time periods, while paying significant attention to historiography. students are required to complete a substantive research paper in which they engage substantially with primary sources. sophomore standing is required for these courses. sophomore standing is required for these courses, unless otherwise noted. printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/history history: faculty and staff professors timothy s. huebner. 1995.. the irma o. sternberg professor of history. b.a., university of miami; m.a. and ph.d., university of florida. (u.s. south, nineteenth century, u.s. constitutional/legal history) jeffrey h. jackson. 2000. b.s., vanderbilt university; ph.d., university of rochester. (modern europe, france, cultural history, natural disasters) jonathan judaken. 2011. the spence wilson chair in the humanities. b.a. university of california, san diego; m.a. and ph.d. university of california, irvine (modern europe,programs of study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53 90 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 pm cultural and intellectual history) etty terem. 2008. the j.j. mccomb chair in history, b.a. and m.a., tel aviv university; ph.d., harvard university. (modern middle east and north africa, islamic law and society) lynn b. zastoupil. 1988. b.a., dickinson state college; m.a., university of texas; ph.d., university of minnesota. (modern britain, india, european intellectual history) associate professors michael j. larosa . 1995. b.a., george washington university; m.a. and ph.d., university of miami. (contemporary latin america, colombia, church history) seok-won lee . 2011. b.a., and m.a., yonsei university; ph.d. cornell university. (modern east asia) charles w. mckinney, jr ., 2004. neville frierson bryan chair of africana studies. b.a., morehouse college; m.a. and ph.d., duke university. (african-american history, civil rights studies, twentieth-century united states) robert f. saxe .2003. b.a., reed college; ph.d., university of illinois. (twentieth-century united states, political history, war and society) tait s. keller . 2008. chair. b.a., university of rochester; m.a. and ph.d., georgetown university. (environmental history, modern europe, germany) assistant professors sarah ifft decker. 2020. b.a., swarthmore college, m.a., the jewish theological seminary, ph.d., yale university. (medieval mediterranean, spain, economic, jewish, women/gender) samson ndanyi . 2018. b.s. and m.s., towson university; m.a., morgan state university; ph.d., indiana university, bloomington. (african history, african american studies, african diaspora studies, world history) staff sarah k. gray. departmental assistant. 2019. mississippi state university.programs of study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53 91 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 pm printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/history/history-faculty-and-staff honors in history 1. completion of all requirements for a bachelor of arts degree in history, as well as a minimum overall grade point average of 3.50 and a minimum history grade point average of 3.50. 2. completion of history 495-496. 3. completion of a major research project, culminating in a research paper and an oral presentation. the student normally begins preparing a proposal by taking a directed inquiry in the spring of the junior year.the formal research proposal must be accepted by the department early in the student’s senior year. the project must be completed and approved by the supervising committee by april. printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/history/honors-history requirements for a major in history requirements for a major in history a total of 11 courses (44 credits) as follows: 1. history 300 (the historian’s craft) 2. history 485 (senior seminar) 3. nine (9) additional courses at the 100, 200, 300, and 400 levels, selected according to the following principles: 1. of the nine courses, no more than two sections of history 105 may be taken. 2. of the nine courses, at least two must be seminar courses at the 300 level. 3. of the nine courses, at least two must be seminar courses at the 400 level. 4. of the nine courses taken at all levels, at least one must be taken in five of the six areas listed below: 1. history of asia 2. history of europeprograms of study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53 92 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 pm 3. global/comparative history 4. history of latin america 5. history of north africa/middle east 6. history of the united states 5. of the nine courses taken at all levels, at least one must concentrate in the period prior to 1500 ce. the following courses meet that requirement: history 211, 212, 213, 222, 223, 271, 282, 293, 311, 312, 313, and 375. (there may be special topics as well.) 6. humanities 201 (history track) counts as a 200-level history course, although it does not fulfill one of the area requirements listed above. credit earned through ap or ib does not fulfill the requirements of the major or minor but does count toward the 128 credits required for graduation. printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/history/requirements-major- history requirements for a minor in history a total of 5 courses (20 credits) selected according to the following principles: 1. no more than two sections of history 105 may be taken. 2. at least two courses at the 300 or 400 level. 3. at least one course in each of three of the following areas: 1. history of asia 2. history of europe 3. global/comparative history 4. history of latin america 5. history of north africa/middle east 6. history of the united states 4. humanities 201 (history track) counts as a 200-level history course, although it doesprograms of study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53 93 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 pm not fulfill the area requirements listed above. credit earned through ap or ib does not fulfill the requirements of the major or minor but does count toward the 128 credits required for graduation. printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/history/requirements-minor- history interdisciplinary study printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/interdisciplinary-study first-year writing seminar the first-year writing seminars (fyws) are offered by different departments across the curriculum and fulfill the first component of the f2 requirement. director of college writing: rebecca finlayson, department of english 151. first-year writing seminar. fall, spring. credits 4. degree requirement: f2s. a course that develops the ability to read and think critically, to employ discussion and writing as a means of exploring and refining ideas, and to express those ideas in effective prose. individual sections of the course will explore different topics in reading, discussion, and writing. topics are selected by individual professors and are designed to help students develop transferable skills of analysis and argumentation, applicable to the various disciplines of the liberal arts and sciences. several papers will be required, at least one of which will involve use of the library and proper documentation. the seminar will emphasize successive stages of the writing process, including prewriting, drafting, and revision, and will provide feedback from classmates and the instructor. students may not take both fyws 151 and fyws 155. 155. first-year writing seminar: daily themes. fall, spring. credits 4. degree requirement: f2s. an alternative to fyws 151 offered to outstanding first-year writers, by invitation from theprograms of study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53 94 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 pm director of college writing. the course is limited to 12 students who meet as a class once a week and individually with the instructor or in small groups with the writing fellow once a week. students will turn in 4 one-page themes each week. some research will be required, and students will use their daily themes as the basis for two longer papers: one at mid term and the other at the end of the semester. students may not take both fyws 151 and fyws 155. printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/interdisciplinary-study/first-year- writing-seminar humanities the life program and the search program described below offer alternative ways to fulfill the f1 requirement in the college’s foundation requirements. printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/interdisciplinary-study/humanities life: then and now staff: thomas bremer , department of religious studies patrick gray , department of religious studies stephen r. haynes , department of religious studies kendra g. hotz , department of religious studies john c. kaltner , department of religious studies steven l. mckenzie , department of religious studies bernadette mcnary-zak , department of religious studies susan satterfield , department of ancient mediterranean studies david sick , department of ancient mediterranean studies in the first two courses of the life: then and now program, the student is introduced to the major methodological approaches to the study of religion represented in the “life” curriculum. the student selects the last course from a range of courses that apply these specific methodological approaches to different aspects of religion. fuller course descriptions may be found in the departmental listings. 101-102. biblical texts and contexts: selected topics. fall, spring. credits: 4 (per semester). degree requirements: life then and now, f1; f2i (rs 102 only)programs of study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53 95 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 pm this two-course sequence of selected topics enables students to develop critical knowledge of biblical texts and post-biblical traditions by helping them understand how these works and their histories of reception inform interpretive contexts. students will acquire skills in critical thinking, analysis, reading, and writing that will equip them to recognize the relevance of the academic study of biblical texts and religion. selected works from the biblical writings and affiliated literature will be discussed within the framework of topics that will allow students to explore their own and others’ operative assumptions about meaning and values. religious studies 101-102 is a prerequisite for 200-level courses in the religious studies department. humanities 101-102 can substitute for this prerequisite. final courses. the concluding courses in the “life” curriculum allow the student to focus in particular areas of the study of religion or philosophy. see the departmental listings under “religious studies,” “philosophy,” and “ancient mediterranean studies” for specific courses in the life curriculum. printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/interdisciplinary-study/humanities /life-then-and-now the search for values in the light of western history and religion staff: geoffrey bakewell , department of ancient mediterranean studies gordon bigelow , department of english elizabeth bridges , department of modern languages and literatures miriam g. clinton , department of art and art history daniel e. cullen , department of philosophy sarah ifft decker , department of history erin dolgoy , department of philosophy and department of politics and law scott garner , department of ancient mediterranean studies patrick gray , department of religious studies judith p. haas , department of english stephen r. haynes , department of religious studiesprograms of study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53 96 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 pm timothy huebner , department of history joseph jansen , department of ancient mediterranean studies jonathan judaken , department of history ariel lopez , department of ancient mediterranean studies laura loth , department of modern languages and lituratures david mason , media studies program bernadette mcnary-zak , department of religious studies kenneth s. morrell , department of ancient mediterranean studies vanessa rogers , department of music sarah rollens , department of religious studies eric sampson , department of philosophy susan satterfield , department of ancient mediterranean studies david h. sick , department of ancient mediterranean studies rebecca tuvel , department of philosophy stephen h. wirls , department of philosophy humanities 101-102-201. the search for values in the light of western history and religion. fall-spring-fall. credits: 4-4-4. degree requirements: f1. the “search” curriculum is a three-semester sequence of humanities courses that focuses on major works that have formed the western tradition. in a small, seminar setting, search students and faculty engage in sustained examination of vital questions arising from an individual’s relationships to the natural world, human society, and the products of human culture. we approach these questions by interrogating central texts within, and written in contestation of, western intellectual traditions, including christianity, judaism, and islam. students read the hebrew bible, the new testament, and the qur'an in conjunction with other selected works from the ancient and medieval worlds. the texts we study over the course of our three semesters speak directly to each other, often radically critiquing the traditions out of which they emerge. in search, we critically examine the assumptions that emerge from these disputed traditions, assumptions that underlie cultures and institutions in the modern world. throughout, we stress the skills that are central to the whole curriculum (careful reading, analytical writing, critical thinking and discussion), and we equip students to enter into a lively and lifelong conversation of ideas. hum 101 and 102programs of study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53 97 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 pm the first semester of search focuses on the ancient world and follows the history and literature of the israelites and the greeks. texts include the ancient sumerian epic of gilgamesh, the hebrew bible, and the selected works of homer, thucydides, plato, and aristotle. the second semester of search covers literature from the hellenistic period to the middle ages. texts include virgil’s aeneid, the new testament, the qur’an, and dante’s divine comedy. during the first year of the course, all search colloquia follow a common syllabus; every 2-3 weeks, all search students meet for a plenary lecture delivered by one of the search faculty. hum 201 the third semester of search pursues the questions raised in the first year as they play out in the modern world. students trace the roles of biblical and classical heritages in the shaping of the values, character, and institutions of western culture and its understanding of self and world. different sections follow different themes and disciplinary focuses determined by the instructor. prerequisites : humanities 101 is a prerequisite for humanities 102. humanities 102 is a prerequisite for humanities 201. these prerequisites may be satisfied alternatively by the permission of the instructor. printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/interdisciplinary-study/humanities /search-values-light-western-history-and-religion interdisciplinary majors students interested in interdisciplinary study are encouraged to consider interdisciplinary majors. the following interdisciplinary majors have been approved by the faculty, and the required courses have been defined as listed below. students who wish to declare any of these established interdisciplinary majors may do so by filing the normal declaration of major form with the office of the registrar. any deviation from the program of study outlined in the description must be approved by the chairpersons of the departments involved. printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/interdisciplinary- study/interdisciplinary-majors biomathematics 1. required mathematics and computer science courses (24 credits): 1. math 122 (integral calculus) + 251 (differential equations)programs of study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53 98 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 pm 2. math 211 (intro statistical methods & applications) 3. cs 141 (computer science i: programming fundamentals) 4. math 214 (discrete math modeling with biological applications) 5. math 315 (continuous math modeling with biological applications) 2. required biology courses (14 credits) : 1. biology 130, 131l, 140, 141l (intro bio sequence) 2. one of the following courses: 1. biology 200 + 201l (evolution) 2. biology 304 + 304l (genetics) 3. biology 305 + 305l (population genomics) 4. biology 315 + 315l (ecology) 5. biology 316 + 316l (freshwater ecology) 6. biology 348 + 348l (wildlife biology) 3. math electives (8 credits): select 2 courses from the following list in consultation with the advisor (at least one at the 300 or 400 level): 1. math 201 (transition to advanced math) 2. math 223 (multivariable calculus) 3. math 261 (linear algebra) 4. math 305 (probability & simulation) 5. math 311 (probability theory) 6. math 312 (math statistics) 7. math 314 (agent-based modeling) 8. math 321 (real analysis) 9. math 324 (vector and advanced calculus) 10. math 352 (partial differential equations)programs of study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53 99 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 pm 11. math 465 (special topics when appropriate) 12. cs 142 (computer science ii: object-oriented programming) 13. math 451-452 (math research), total of 4 credits 4. biology electives (14 credits): select 3 courses from the following list in consultation with the advisor (2 must have a lab): 1. biology courses at the 200 or 300 level [biology 307 (cell biology) may combine with bmb 310 (methods in cell biology and biochemistry) to satisfy a lab elective] 2. chemistry 315 (biochemistry) [may combine with bmb 310 (methods in cell biology and biochemistry) to satisfy a lab elective] 3. chemistry 416 (mechanisms of drug action) 4. neuroscience 270 (neuroscience) [may combine with neuroscience 350 (neuroscience research methods) to satisfy a lab elective] 5. senior research (4 credits): normally, students will have two advisors: one who advises the mathematical component of their senior research and one who advises the biological component of their research. each student will take four credits of seminar, one credit in the spring of their junior year, and three credits in their senior year (all in one semester or divided between fall and spring semesters). students may petition to substitute math 451/452 or participation in research fellowships/st. jude summer plus program for two terms before junior spring semester for credit for math 386. see the math chair for more details. 1. math 386 (junior sem) or math 451/452 2. math 485, 486 (senior seminar) 6. recommended courses: 1. if considering grad school in ecology it is strongly recommended that students take bio 315, cs 142, and math 311. 2. if considering grad school in mathematics, biomathematics, or mathematical ecology it is strongly recommended that students take math 201, 261, and 321. 3. students should consider bio 214, or envs 160 as a means of fulfilling their f-11 requirement. 4. physics 111 + 113l (fundamentals in physics i) as appropriate to career goalsprograms of study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53 100 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 pm 5. some classes that may be of interest: 6. economics 407 (game theory) 7. history 105 (special topics: disease & epidemics) f2i, f3 8. history 270 (global environmental history) f3, f11 9. history 307 (nature & war) f3 10. international studies 340, 341 (global ecopolitics, comparative ecopolitics) f8 11. philosophy 230 (environmental ethics) 12. philosophy 303 (medical ethics) f1 printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/interdisciplinary- study/interdisciplinary-majors/biomathematics economics and business a total of sixty-two (62) credits as follows: 1. economics 100 introduction to economics, 201 intermediate microeconomics, 202 intermediate macroeconomics, 290 statistical analysis for economics and business, 420 econometrics, 486 senior seminar in economics. 2. business 241 financial accounting, 243 managerial accounting, 351 corporate financial management, 361 management of organizations, 371 marketing management, 486 senior seminar in business. 3. four credits from: a. econ 250: readings in economics b. econ 265: topics in economics c. econ 305: public economics d. econ 308: industrial organization e. econ 310: international trade and policy f. econ 311: international financial economicsprograms of study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53 101 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 pm g. econ 312: economic development h. econ 317: money and banking i. econ 318: economics of crime and corruption j. econ 323: classical and marxian political economy k. econ 331: labor economics l. econ 338: european economic history m. econ 339: u.s. economic history n. econ 343: family economics o. econ 345: economics of sports p. econ 349: environmental and natural resource economics q. econ 357: economics of risk, uncertainty, and information r. econ 377: economics of education s. econ 407: game theory t. econ 412: data management and analysis (new course added last year) u. econ 440: advanced econometrics v. econ 465: advanced topics in economics 4. one course from each of two of the following areas: a. accounting: business 341 intermediate accounting i b. finance: business 452 cases in managerial finance, 454 international financial management/financial analytics. c. management: business 463 international management, 466 personnel and human resource management, 467 diversity and inclusion in the workplace d. marketing: business 472 marketing analytics and metrics , 473 international marketing, 474 services marketing. e. other: business 481 business ethics and social responsibility, 483 advanced international business cases, 484 social impact of business in south africa programs of study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53 102 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 pm 5. math 115 applied calculus, 116 calculus with business applications or 122 integral calculus 6. recommended: mathematics 107 linear methods; philosophy 225 justice, equality, and liberty; media studies 240 public speaking, computer science 141 programming fundamentals, 142 object-oriented programming, business 460 internship, economics 460 internship. printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/interdisciplinary- study/interdisciplinary-majors/economics-and-business economics and international studies a total of 15-16 courses (60-64 credits) as follows: 1. economics 100, 201, 202, 290, 310, 312; either economics 486 or international studies 485. 2. economics 407 or 420. 3. international studies 110, 120, 300, and three additional courses at 200-level or above. at least one 4-credit course should be selected from area a - global leadership, and at least one 4-credit course should be selected from area b - regional leadership. 4. mathematics 115, 116 or 122. 5. an appropriate foreign language through completion of the second year (202) or demonstrated proficiency through the 202 level as indicated by an appropriate proficiency test. printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/interdisciplinary- study/interdisciplinary-majors/economics-and-international-studies history and international studies a total of 12-13 courses (48-52 credits) as follows: 1. hist 300. 2. two history courses at the 300 or 400 level.programs of study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53 103 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 pm 3. international studies 110, 120, 270, 300. 4. economics 100. 5. a total of three additional courses, including at least one from history and at least one from international studies. students must choose one of the following concentrations: a. africa/middle east: hist 105 (when course topic is focused on the geographical region), hist 271, hist 272, hist 275, hist 276, hist 277, ints 243, ints 244, ints 245, ints 251, ints 252, ints 253, ints 254. b. asia: hist 105 (when course topic is focused on the geographical region), hist 281, hist 282, hist 283, hist 287, hist 288, hist 293, hist 294, ints 260, ints 261, ints 262, ints 263, ints 264, ints 395. c. europe: hist 105 (when course topic is focused on the geographical region), hist 212, hist 213, hist 214, hist 215, hist 216, hist 217, hist 225, hist 226, hist 229, ints 280, ints 281, ints 282, ints 283, ints 284, ints 285. d. global/comparative: hist 105 (when course topic is focused on the geographical region), hist 207, hist 209, hist 224, ints 220, ints 221, ints 256, ints 310, ints 311, ints 330, ints 332, ints 334, ints 336, ints 340, ints 341, ints 371, ints 372, ints 373, ints 374, ints 420, ints 421, ints 422, ints 451, ints 452. e. latin america: hist 105 (when course topic is focused on the geographical region), hist 261, hist 262, hist 267, ints 273, ints 274. 6. international studies 485. senior paper to be written under the direction of one faculty member from each department. the senior paper should pertain to the student’s concentration. 7. an appropriate foreign language through completion of the second year (202) or demonstrated proficiency through the 202 level as indicated by an appropriate proficiency test. qualified students wishing to pursue honors can do so by fulfilling the requirements of the interdisciplinary major and of the honors tutorial in either department.programs of study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53 104 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 pm printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/interdisciplinary- study/interdisciplinary-majors/history-and-international-studies mathematics and economics a total of 14 courses (56 credits) as follows: 1. economics 100, 201, 202, 290, 407, 420. 2. one course from economics 305, 308, 310, 331, 343, 357, 412, 440. 3. mathematics 122, 201, 223, 251, 261. 4. mathematics 311 or 321. 5. economics 486 or mathematics 485 and 486. senior projects must have a faculty reader from both departments. the final presentation of the senior project must be made in the senior seminars of both departments. students taking math 485 and 486 are encouraged to take math 386 (junior seminar) in the spring semester of their junior year. qualified students wishing to pursue honors can do so by fulfilling the requirements of the interdisciplinary major and of the honors tutorial in either department. mathematics and economics majors seeking admission to graduate programs in economics, operations research, statistics, or mathematical finance are advised to also take mathematics 312, mathematics 431, computer science 141, computer science 142, and possibly business 351. printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/interdisciplinary- study/interdisciplinary-majors/mathematics-and-economics music and psychology a total of 16 courses (64 credits) as follows: 1. music courses (6 courses, 8 performance credits = two (2) 4-credit courses): a. theory & musicianship: ◦ musc 204: understanding musicianship [f5]* ◦ two (2) 300-level music theory courses (306-313) *if placement test determines this course is redundant, choose three 300-levelprograms of study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53 105 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 pm music theory courses. b. history & literature: one (1) course from: musc 227: western art music i [f3] or musc 228: western art music ii [f3] c. performance: four (4) semesters of large ensembles (musc 181-184, 190-194 = 1 credit each) four (4) semesters of applied lessons (musc 160-180 = 1 credit each) d. electives: two (2) 4-credit courses 1. one (1) music cognition/therapy topic course (musc 140-149 or musc 340-349) 2. other courses should be selected from the following recommended list: musc 103, 117-119, 130, 222, 227-228, 306, 310, or 414 note: fine arts scholarship waivers for applied music fees are outlined in the award letter which supersedes music major and minor fee waivers. 2. psychology courses (7 courses): a. foundational psychology courses: psyc 150: foundational issues in psychology [f8] psyc 200: research methods and statistics (sophomore year) psyc 211: statistical methods [f6] (sophomore year) b. perception: psyc 216 c. advanced research methods: one (1) course from psyc 350-353 (junior year) d. two other courses chosen from one concentration: cognition: psyc 306: language and communication psyc 327: cognitive processes psyc 345: cognitive neuroscience psyc 451-452: research practicum (4 credits) neuro 270: neuroscience neuro 318: neuroscience of brain disorders applied: psyc 220: psychology of health psyc 222: educational psychology psyc 224: psychological disorders psyc 229: developmental psychology: infant and childhood [f11] psyc 230: adolescent development psyc 311: counseling psychology programs of study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53 106 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 pm psyc 326: learning and motivation 3. senior experience (4 credits) either musc 485-486 or psyc 485 as recommended by advisor and topic availability. the culminating senior seminar research project is required to integrate the fields of music and psychology. printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/interdisciplinary- study/interdisciplinary-majors/music-and-psychology political science and international studies a total of 14-15 courses (56-60 credits) as follows: 1. international studies: 110, 120, 300, and three additional courses at 200-level or above. at least one 4-credit course should be selected from area a - global leadership, and at least one 4-credit course should be selected from area b - regional leadership. 2. politics and law: plaw 151; plaw 340 or 360; another 300 level course from among the following courses in american politics and policy (301, 305, 308, 318, 319, 320, 321, 330, 340, 360, 370); one of the following courses in political theory (212, 214, 218, 230, 314); one additional course at the 200 level or above. (plaw 262,263, 264, do not count toward the political science and international studies interdisciplinary major.) 3. economics 100 or international studies 311. 4. international studies 270 or plaw 270. 5. international studies 485 or plaw 485. 6. an appropriate foreign language through completion of the second year (202) or demonstrated proficiency through the 202 level as indicated by an appropriate proficiencyprograms of study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53 107 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 pm test. printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/interdisciplinary- study/interdisciplinary-majors/political-science-and-international russian studies and international studies a total of 14 courses (56 credits) as follows: 1. russian 201, 202, 301, 302. 2. one of the following: russian 205, russian 285, russian 410, history 229, or another elective course on russia or ussr (subject to the approval of the russian studies program director). 3. international studies 110, 120, 270, 300, and two additional courses at 200-level or above. at least one 4-credit course should be selected from area a - global leadership, and at least one 4-credit course should be selected from area b - regional leadership. 4. economics 100 or international studies 311. 5. international studies 485. printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/interdisciplinary- study/interdisciplinary-majors/russian-studies-and-international self-designed interdisciplinary majors the option of a self-designed interdisciplinary major is available for those students whose academic goals may best be achieved by combining and integrating the work of two or more academic departments. like the college’s other interdisciplinary programs, the self- designed interdisciplinary major exists to provide an appropriate structure for programs of study that do not fit within the bounds of existing departments and require an interdisciplinary approach. the majors currently offered by the college’s academic departments and interdisciplinary programs are carefully designed and rigorously reviewed by the faculty for intellectual depth and coherence. students who wish to propose a self-designed course of study should expect that their proposals will be held to the same standards. the self-designed interdisciplinary major petition process therefore requires a significant amount of time and reflection. students wishing to pursue this option will work closely with their advisingprograms of study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53 108 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 pm faculty in the relevant departments to construct their proposal and to see their study through to completion. students who wish to pursue a self-designed interdisciplinary major must complete the required “declaration of interdisciplinary major” form. in completing that form, students should follow the steps below in order to meet the rigorous criteria for the proposed program of study. 1. consult with faculty members in the departments that will be combined in the major to determine the feasibility of the interdisciplinary major. consultation with the registrar is also recommended in order to secure an understanding of the approval procedure. 2. prepare, in consultation with those faculty members and departments, a petition requesting the college faculty’s approval of the interdisciplinary major. this petition is addressed to the chairperson of the faculty educational program committee. the petition must contain the following items: 1. an essay that articulates the student’s rationale for the interdisciplinary major. simply explaining how courses in different departments are related is not a sufficient rationale. the rationale must specifically explain why the academic goals of the self-designed major cannot be achieved through a combination of majors and minor(s). the petitioner must demonstrate that only by integrating work in the departments can those academic goals be realized. the importance of this essay cannot be overemphasized. it is not only a statement of the student’s reasons for choosing the proposed interdisciplinary major, but also a philosophical and practical statement of (i) how the new major meets the same rigorous standards as the college’s already-existing majors, (ii) how the proposed course-plan will include truly “interdisciplinary” study, (iii) how, if there are similar programs or majors at other comparable institutions, the proposed plan for interdisciplinary study compares to those. 2. the declaration of interdisciplinary major, including a complete listing of courses that comprise the interdisciplinary major, with numbers, titles, and dates when the courses are to be taken. though it is customary that the number of courses in each department will be fewer than what is expected of a major in that department, it is essential that substantial advanced work is done in each department. the proposed program of study must include a complete description of how the “interdisciplinary” senior experience will be structured. it must be clear how the departments involved in the major will be integrated into the senior seminar, seminars, or capstone experience. any self-designed capstone experience should be explained in detail and should be comparable in content, rigor, and methodology to the capstone experiences for existing majors.programs of study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53 109 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 pm 3. the declaration of interdisciplinary major must be endorsed in writing by the chairpersons of the concerned departments. this endorsement must include a detailed assessment of the student’s rationale and of the student’s ability to undertake and complete successfully the work projected in the petition. the departmental endorsements should also specify who will serve as the principal faculty advisor for the student. if the student’s petition includes coursework or other projects outside of the participating departments’ normal course offerings, the chairpersons should also note their awareness of those elements of the proposal and give assurances that those or comparable opportunities will be available for the student. 4. the entire declaration of interdisciplinary major with the completed petition is submitted to the registrar for review before it is sent to the education program committee for a full review and final determination. incomplete declarations will be returned to the student without review. 5. interdisciplinary majors must be declared and receive approval no later than midterm of the spring semester of the junior year. it is expected that work on the petition, interviews with faculty, and consultation with the registrar should begin as early as possible, but will take place no later than the fall semester of the junior year. the student who submits an interdisciplinary major petition will have already declared a major by midterm of the spring semester of the sophomore year. if the interdisciplinary major can be worked out in time for the sophomore year deadline for declaring a major, it should be submitted earlier. 6. any proposed deviation from an approved interdisciplinary major must have departmental approvals and the approval of the education program committee before changes are made in the course of study. printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/interdisciplinary-study/self- designed-interdisciplinary-majors international studies the department of international studies prepares students to understand international politics, foreign policy making, political development, international law, international organization, security and defense policy, and the politics and cultures of various countries and regions of the world. printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/international-studiesprograms of study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53 110 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 pm areas of concentration area a: global leadership - includes courses numbered at the 300-level or 400-level (excluding is 300, is 485, and is 495-6) - also includes is 220, is 221, and is 256 area b: regional leadership - includes region-specific courses numbered at the 200-level (excluding is 235, is 256, and is 270) other courses (these can be either a or b area courses): 133: model united nations 265-266: selected topics in international studies 460: internship in international studies 470: summer internship abroad (mertie w. buckman international internship program) printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/international-studies/areas- concentration honors in international studies required: completing honors in the department of international studies is comprised of two semesters (fall and spring). students must enroll in international studies 485 in the fall semester of the year in which the student intends to complete the honors project and gain departmental approval of a research proposal. students will select an advisor who will serve as first reader. the instructor teaching senior seminar will also serve as a reader. a faculty member from a department or program outside of international studies will serve as the third reader. students should consult with international studies faculty members and the chair of the department about their intentions to pursue an honors project during the spring semester prior to their senior year and obtain a copy of the “honors in international studies guidelines.” a minimum gpa of 3.70 in all course work and approval of the department are required. printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/international-studies/honors- international-studies international studies: faculty and staff professorsprograms of study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53 111 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 pm stephen j. ceccoli . 1998. p.k. seidman professor of political economy. b.a., heidelberg college; m.a., ph.d., washington university. (international relations, political economy, comparative public policy.) shadrack w. nasong’o . 2005. b.a., m.a., university of nairobi, kenya; ph.d., northeastern university, boston. (african politics, comparative politics, international relations.) amy e. risley . 2005. stanley j. buckman professor of international studies. b.a., university of wisconsin, madison; m.a., new york university; ph.d., university of texas at austin. (latin american politics, comparative politics, international relations.) nikolaos zahariadis . 2016. mertie buckman distinguished professor of international studies. b.a., slippery rock university; m.a., ph.d., university of georgia. (european politics, international relations, comparative politics.) associate professors chien-kai chen . 2013. chair. b.a., national taiwan university; m.a., the university of alabama, tuscaloosa; ph.d., boston university. (east asian politics, comparative politics, international relations.) esen kirdis. 2011. j.s. seidman research fellow. b.a., koc university, istanbul, turkey; ph.d., university of minnesota, twin cities. (middle east politics, islamic politics, international relations, comparative politics.) staff maya robertson . 2021. b.s., northwestern state university; m.s., grambling state university. printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/international-studies /international-studies-faculty-and-staff requirements for a major in international studies a total of forty-eight (48) credits as follows: 1. required courses: international studies 110, 120, 270, 300, 485.programs of study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53 112 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 pm 2. economics 100 or international studies 311. 3. twenty (20) additional credits in international studies with at least 8 credits from each area (a - global leadership, and b - regional leadership). 4. completion of courses in a foreign language through the second full year at the college level (through the 202-level). any 4-credit foreign language course above the 202-level and taught in the foreign language could also be used to satisfy the language requirement. 5. each student in the major will be required to complete an international experience. there are several ways to complete this requirement subject to the approval of the department chair. students may take a study abroad course approved by the rhodes college study abroad office; an internship in international studies, ints 460; or the model un course, ints 133, four times. any such international experience with course credit would count toward no. 3 above. the department of international studies offers a number of interdisciplinary majors in collaboration with other departments. these majors include international studies/economics; international studies/history; international studies/political science; and international studies/russian studies. printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/international-studies /requirements-major-international-studies requirements for a minor in international studies a total of twenty-four (24) credits as follows: 1. international studies 110, 120. 2. four additional courses at the 200-level or above. at least one course should be selected from area a - global leadership, and at least one course should be selected from area b - regional leadership. printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/international-studies /requirements-minor-international-studies jewish, islamic, and middle eastern studies programprograms of study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53 113 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 pm jewish, islamic and middle east studies illuminates the general questions of our liberal arts and sciences curriculum from the purview of jews, muslims, and other middle easterners. the program allows students interested in jewish and islamic religion and middle eastern history, politics, and culture to focus on a deeper understanding of the contribution of judaism and islam to the development of world civilizations. part of what distinguishes this program from others like it nationally is that it requires students to understand the entangled and interconnected histories, cultures, and politics of jews, muslims, and other religious groups over time and in different contexts, as well as the similarities and conflicts between these groups. furthermore, this program seeks to incorporate college-wide conversations about integration and diversity on campus with the rigors of academic investigation. this program houses three different minors in (1) jewish studies, (2) islamic and middle east studies, and (3) jewish, islamic and middle east studies. printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/jewish-islamic-and-middle- eastern-studies-program jewish, islamic, and middle east studies program committee etty terem, department of history (chair) esen kirdis, department of international studies jonathan judaken, department of history john kaltner, department of religious studies raissa a von doetinchem de rande, department of religious studies sarah ifft decker, department of history printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/jewish-islamic-and-middle- eastern-studies-program/jewish-islamic-and-middle-east requirements for a minor in islamic and middle east studies a total of twenty (20) credits wherein: 1. students will take at least one course in each field based on the following categories:programs of study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53 114 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 pm 1. historical • art 209: art and architecture of the ancient near east and egypt • hist 105: special topics (when subject matter pertains to islamic and middle east studies) ◦ examples: pharaonic egypt; egypt after the pharaohs; egypt in late antiquity; terrorism, torture, and anti-colonialism: the algerian war of independence; race and racism • hist 223: the fall of the roman empire, 300-700 ce • hist 275: the making of the modern middle east • hist 276: re-making the twentieth century middle east • hist 277: modern islamic thought • hist 375: islamic history and civilization • hist 475: colonial encounters in north africa and beyond • span 365: christians, muslims, and jews in spain: past and present (taught in spanish) 2. cultural: • rels 101: the bible: texts and contexts (when subject matter pertains to islamic and middle east studies) ◦ examples: the bible and the qur’an; the bible and islam • rels 258: topics in the history of religions (when subject matter pertains to islamic and middle east studies) ◦ examples: introduction to islam, muslim-christian relations • rels 277: selected topics in hebrew bible/old testament ◦ example: biblical figures in the qur’an 3. political: • ints 243: governments & politics of the middle east • ints 244: issues in middle east politics • ints 245: us foreign policy in the middle east • ints 334: religion & politicsprograms of study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53 115 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 pm 2. students will take at least one course in the following departments: history, international studies, and religious studies 3. students will take at least one upper 300-level course or 400-level course 4. students will take one jewish, islamic and middle east studies (jime) course or one course in the jewish studies minor note: rels 276 and 277 and hist 105 may be repeated with permission of instructor and/or program committee. printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/jewish-islamic-and-middle- eastern-studies-program/requirements-minor-islamic-and requirements for a minor in jewish studies a total of twenty (20) credits drawn from the following courses in at least two different departments: 1. 1. a maximum of three courses at the 100-level or 200-level: • ◦ rels 101-102: the bible: texts and contexts (when subject matter pertains to jewish studies) ▪ example: the hebrew bible and its reception ◦ rels 232: holocaust ◦ rels 253: judaism ◦ rels 260: archeology & hebrew bible (religious studies 200) ◦ rels 276-277: selected topics in hebrew/bible/old testament (when subject matter pertains to jewish studies) ▪ example: the bible and empire ◦ hebr 201: hebrew ◦ hist 105: special topics (when subject matter pertains to jewish studies) ▪ example: race and racism 1. 2. at least one course at the 300-level or 400-level: • ◦ rels 300-301: selected topics in religious studies (when subject matter pertains to jewish studies)programs of study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53 116 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 pm ▪ example: atypical biblical prophets ◦ hist 405: anti-semitism ◦ hist 320: modern jewish thought and culture ◦ hist 421/fren 335: representing racism in french literature and culture: the jewish question 1. 3. one jewish, islamic and middle east studies (jime) course or one course from the islamic and middle east studies minor note: rels 276 and 277 and hist 105 may be repeated with permission of instructor and/or program committee. printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/jewish-islamic-and-middle- eastern-studies-program/requirements-minor-jewish-studies requirements for a minor in jewish, islamic and middle east studies a total of twenty (20) credits wherein: 1. students will take two courses in jewish studies 2. students will take two courses in islamic & middle east studies 3. students must take at least one 300-level or 400-level course from either the jewish studies or islamic and middle east studies minor or a jewish, islamic and middle east studies (jime) course 4. students must take courses in at least two different departments note: rels 276 and 277 and hist 105 may be repeated with permission of instructor and/or program committee printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/jewish-islamic-and-middle- eastern-studies-program/requirements-minor-jewish-islamic latin american and latinx studiesprograms of study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53 117 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 pm through interdisciplinary and transdisciplinary work, latin american and latinx studies majors and minors critically examine the wealth of experiences, cultural productions and histories of latin america and the latinx worlds. after an integrated introduction to latin american and latinx studies, the curriculum brings together courses in the fields of anthropology, sociology, economics, education, health equity, history, modern languages (spanish and portuguese), music, international studies, urban studies, and psychology among others, and includes community-based learning opportunities in memphis, in the u.s, and abroad. printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/latin-american-and-latinx-studies honors in latin american studies 1. completion of all requirements for the latin american studies major. 2. completion of latin american studies 495-496. 3. completion and public presentation of a substantial research project. project proposal must be approved by the latin american studies committee by april of the junior year. printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/latin-american-and-latinx-studies /honors-latin-american-studies latin american studies: program committee • elizabeth pettinaroli, department of modern languages and literatures (chair) • bruno badia, department of economics • amy benson, english department/creative writing • sarah boyle, department of biology • joy brooke fairfield, media studies program • eric henager, department of modern languages and literatures • andrea jacobo, health equity • laura kelly, educational studies • francisco lara, department of music • michael larosa, department of history • jeanne lopiparo, department of anthropology and sociology • nina morais, german studies • jaqueline oliveira, department of economicsprograms of study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53 118 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 pm • amy risley, department of international studies printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/latin-american-and-latinx-studies /latin-american-studies-program-committee requirements for a major in latin american and latinx studies a total of forty-two (42) credits as follows: 1. latin american and latinx studies 200: introduction to latin american and latinx studies. 2. latin american and latinx studies 485: senior seminar. 3. nine of the following courses from at least four different departments, and at least 1 course at the 300-level or above. no more than three courses in any one department may count toward the major: • region specific courses (category a, at least 30 credits or more) • discipline specific courses with lals attribute (category b, 12 credits maximum) and other courses by approval of the chair of the lals program, professor elizabeth pettinaroli. questions: contact prof. elizabeth pettinaroli pettinaroli@pettinarolie@rhodes.edu printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/latin-american-and-latinx-studies /requirements-major-latin-american-and-latinx requirements for a minor in latin american and latinx studies a total of twenty-two (22) credits as follows: 1. latin american and latinx studies 200 2. five courses from at least three different departments:programs of study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53 119 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 pm • category a-region specific courses (at least 12 credits or more) • category b-discipline specific courses with lals attribute (10 credits maximum) and other courses by approval of the chair of the lals program, professor elizabeth pettinaroli. questions: contact prof. elizabeth pettinaroli pettinaroli@pettinarolie@rhodes.edu printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/latin-american-and-latinx-studies /requirements-minor-latin-american-and-latinx liberal arts in prison the undergraduate certificate in liberal arts is available to students participating in the liberal arts in prison program. the certificate is a 4-course, 12-credit undergraduate certificate. the overall goals of the liberal arts in prison program are 1) to expose incarcerated students to quality postsecondary education, which research shows can lower inmate recidivism by as much as 40% 2) to enhance the lives of incarcerated men and women, the vast majority of whom will return to their home communities in tennessee 3) to offer foundational courses that are transferrable to any higher education institution 4) to increase the aspiration for postsecondary educational achievement among children and other family members of incarcerated students. requirements for the undergraduate certificate in liberal arts: a total of 12 credits and 4 classes: hum 010 culture and values i hum 020 culture and values ii hum 030 culture and values iii hum 040 culture and values iv printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/liberal-arts-prisonprograms of study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53 120 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 pm master of science in accounting rhodes college offers a 32-credit program of study in accounting and business leading to the master of science in accounting degree. the m.s. in accounting is a professional master’s degree designed to provide a mature understanding of accepted professional practices in the field of accounting and to support entry and advancement in the various fields of professional accounting. additional information the m.s. in accounting program office hours are generally 8:30 a.m. - 4:00 p.m. monday through friday (cst). for additional information, contact: dr. wendy bailey director of m.s. in accounting program 901-843-3096 baileyw@rhodes.edu printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/master-science-accounting academic regulations the m.s. in accounting program abides by the same academic regulations as the undergraduate program at rhodes, with the exceptions noted below. registration qualification as a full-time, degree student requires registration for a minimum of eight (8) credits in a semester. degree-seeking students who register for seven (7) credits or less in any one semester are classified as part-time students. pass-fail a student may enroll in a class on a pass-fail basis. permission of the instructor and the director of the m.s. in accounting is required and must be obtained during the first three weeks of the class in a semester. the pass/fail option may not be used to satisfy any of the graduate course requirements for the m.s. in accounting degree. academic probation and suspensionprograms of study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53 121 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 pm to maintain acceptable scholastic standing and to graduate, a student must have an overall grade point average of 3.000 (b) for all graduate work attempted. the graduate committee places on academic probation any student whose cumulative grade point average at the end of a semester falls below the minimum standard. notification of academic probation will be printed on the student grade report. a student on academic probation is not considered to be in good academic standing. such students are ineligible to participate in some extracurricular activities, including intercollegiate athletics. a student is removed from academic probation upon attainment of a 3.000 average in graduate courses. a student placed on academic probation because of a grade point average below 3.000 has one academic semester of course work to raise his or her average to the required 3.000. if the grade point average is not raised to a 3.000, he or she may be dropped from the program. any student who earns a d or an f in any graduate course may be dismissed immediately from the program. printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/master-science-accounting /academic-regulations admission admissions procedure a student who wishes to apply for admission to the m.s. program complete an application from the rhodes college website. all applicants for admission to the m.s. in accounting program are required to submit transcripts from all colleges attended and three letters of reference. all applicants to the graduate program must have an earned baccalaureate from an accredited institution before beginning the program. standardized tests non-domestic applicants are required to take the graduate management admissions test (gmat). potential students may choose to submit a gmat score as part of the application package. any student planning to apply to the program for fall admission should plan to take the test no later than december so that his or her scores will be available for the graduate admissions committee by march 1. test application forms may be obtained from some colleges and universities or from the gmat website at www.mba.com . applicants whose university instruction was not in english are also required to take the test of english as a foreign language and achieve a score of 550 or above. provisional admission a limited number of students who would be denied admission based on test scores, letters of recommendation, personal interviews and transcripts may be admitted provisionally toprograms of study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53 122 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 pm the program if they can demonstrate high probability of success in the program and likelihood of outstanding performance in the profession of accounting in some other manner. other criteria may include, for example, a record of outstanding performance in a job with increasing levels of responsibility over time. any student provisionally admitted to the program must attain a grade point average of at least a 3.00 (b) on the first twelve hours of the program completed in order to remain in the program. admission of special students (non-degree candidates) students who give evidence of sufficient ability may be admitted as special students to a course offered as part of the m.s. in accounting curriculum. special students may take no more than two courses. after two courses, which may total no more than eight credits, the student must make formal application to the m.s. in accounting program and be accepted into it before taking any additional graduate courses. an undergraduate student in his or her senior year may petition the graduate committee to enroll in a graduate course as a special student. in such a case, no graduate credit will be granted for courses used to satisfy undergraduate requirements. a student may apply no more than a total of four graduate credits earned as a special student and/or for transfer credit toward the requirements for the m.s. in accounting at rhodes. readmission of students the m.s. in accounting degree must be completed within three academic years from the date of initial enrollment as a degree candidate. failure to complete the degree requirements within this time will result in being dropped from the program. any student who wants to continue the program after being dropped must petition the director for reinstatement. printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/master-science-accounting /admission expenses and financial aid the tuition charges, regulations for payment and withdrawal, activity fees, and special fees and deposits for the m.s. in accounting are the same as for the undergraduate program at rhodes. these charges and policies are outlined in the “expenses” portion of the catalogue. room charges and policies are also the same as those for the undergraduate programs; however, on-campus rooms will be made available to graduate students only after all undergraduate demand has been satisfied. financial aidprograms of study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53 123 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 pm financial assistance for students in the m.s. in accounting program will primarily be in the form of loans and scholarships. other grants or assistance may be available on a need basis. loans graduate students are currently eligible for federal stafford loans. federal stafford loans are made on an unsubsidized basis, and the student is responsible for interest payment during periods of enrollment. repayment begins six months after the student graduates or ceases to be enrolled at least half-time. anyone interested in the student loan program should contact: office of financial aid rhodes college 2000 n. parkway memphis, tn 38112-1690 telephone 901-843-3810 scholarships all applicants are automatically considered for a departmental scholarship with no additional forms required to be filed. departmental scholarships for students in the m.s. in accounting program are merit based; financial need is not a consideration. selection for a scholarship is based upon the candidate’s academic record, personal achievements, and promise of success in accounting. printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/master-science-accounting /expenses-and-financial-aid master in accounting: faculty and staff associate professors wendy bailey . 2021. director, m.s. in accounting program. b.s., washington university st. louis; m.s., university of colorado-boulder; ph.d., university of pittsburgh (accounting) dee birnbaum . 1991. b.a., state university of new york at stony brook; m.b.a., baruch college; m.phil., ph.d., city university of new york. (general management; human resource management.) kayla d. booker . 2015. b.b.a., m.p.a., ph.d., jackson state university. c.p.a.programs of study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53 124 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 pm (accountancy.) sujan m. dan . 2013. b.tech, kerala university, india; m.s., ph.d., texas a&m university. (marketing.) denis khantimirov. 2015. b.a., north ossetian state university, russia; m.b.a., university of nevada, las vegas; ph.d., old dominion university. (marketing) kelly p. weeks. 2015. b.a., rhodes college; m.a. and ph.d., the university of memphis. (management) andrey zagorchev . 2013. b.s., m.s., plovdiv university, bulgaria; m.b.a., wright state university; ph.d., lehigh university. (finance.) assistant professors jade o. planchon . 2012. b.a., rhodes college; m.b.a., columbia university. (finance.) part-time associate professor milton l. lovell . 2003. b.s., j.d., university of mississippi. ll.m., new york university school of law. chief financial officer and general counsel, nexair, llc (accountancy; taxation.) part-time instructor staff hannah guess. 2020. departmental assistant. b.a. and m.a., university of memphis. printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/master-science-accounting /master-accounting-faculty-and-staff requirements for the m.s. degree a total of thirty (32) credits as follows: required courses or the equivalent substitute. (28 credits): 1. business 641: seminar in financial accounting theory and research.programs of study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53 125 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 pm 2. business 643: seminar in accounting control. 3. business 644: accounting for governmental and not-for-profit entities. 4. business 645: taxation of business organizations. 5. business 646: consolidations and advanced accounting topics. 6. business 647: legal and regulatory environment of business. 7. business 648: systems auditing. elective course. (4 credits) one 500- or 600-level course in the department of business. if students have sufficient accounting courses to take the cpa examination or equivalent professional examination (e.g., cma examination, cfa examination), they may choose up to 4 credits of bus 675: professional development and exam preparation. changes in degree requirements a student may satisfy the requirements for an m.s. in accounting degree as described in any catalogue that has been in effect during the student’s enrollment in the m.s. program. students readmitted to rhodes may graduate under requirements in effect during the original period of enrollment or by following a program incorporating features of the current and the earlier degree requirements and approved by the graduate committee. for students electing to graduate under earlier degree requirements, there is no guarantee that the courses specified in those requirements will be offered. printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/master-science-accounting /requirements-ms-degree the educational program the graduate program builds upon the undergraduate study of accounting by introducing more complex accounting practices and reasoning into the functional areas of accounting: cost, tax, auditing and advanced financial. the graduate program also addresses the legal environment of business and business ethics, accounting research, and the theory and methodology of the accounting discipline. it is central to the mission of the program that students be able to communicate effectively, both orally and in writing. a significant component of all graduate courses will be oral presentations and discussions as well as written assignments. the curriculumprograms of study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53 126 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 pm core courses and prerequisites. the following courses or their equivalents are required before beginning the graduate program. the graduate committee will evaluate a student’s transcript to determine whether a core course requirement has been met. at the committee’s discretion, a student may be allowed to take core courses marked with an asterisk (*) concurrently with graduate coursework: 1. financial accounting. 2. managerial accounting. 3. intermediate accounting i and ii. 4. federal income tax .* 5. auditing.* 6. introduction to economics. area courses. a student must complete at least one course, either graduate or undergraduate, in each of the following areas: 1. finance. 2. management or marketing. printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/master-science-accounting /educational-program transfer credit no more than a total of four graduate credits earned at another institution and/or graduate credit earned as a special student (see above) may be counted toward the m.s. in accounting at rhodes. a minimum grade of b- must be earned for any course credit to be transferred. transfer credit guidelines. the following guidelines are used in evaluating academic work from other institutions for graduate transfer credit. 1. the institution at which the course work is taken must be an accredited college or university. 2. correspondence courses and distance learning (internet) courses will not be accepted for meeting the program’s prerequisites (except as approved by the director), area courses, or degree requirements.programs of study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53 127 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 pm 3. to be accepted for credit, each course must be judged comparable in terms of content and quality to a course in the graduate curriculum at rhodes. the program director makes these judgments. 4. all course work taken at other institutions for which rhodes receives a transcript will be evaluated for transfer credit, and if acceptable, will be posted to the student’s record. 5. a maximum of 4 credits (1 credit = 1 semester hour) will be accepted toward the rhodes m.s. in accounting degree. transfer credits based on a quarter system are converted to the rhodes credit basis using the formula that one quarter hour equals two-thirds credit. fractional transfer credits will be credited. 6. transfer credits are not accepted if the grade is c+ or below. transfer credits are credited to the rhodes transcript as credits only; they are not used to determine the grade point average. 7. transfer credit may be used to satisfy m.s. degree requirements. printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/master-science-accounting /transfer-credit mathematics and statistics the department of mathematics and statistics offers students numerous opportunities to develop quantitative reasoning, critical-thinking, problem-solving, and communication skills through its curriculum and extracurricular activities. printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/mathematics-and-statistics honors in mathematics requirements: 1. fulfillment of the requirements for the major. 2. honors tutorial: 495 and 496. 3. approval by the department is required. students should consult with a faculty member about their intentions to pursue an honorsprograms of study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53 128 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 pm project before the end of their junior year. printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/mathematics-and-statistics /honors-mathematics mathematics and statistics: faculty and staff professors christopher mouron . 2002. b.s., lafayette college; m.s. and ph.d., texas tech university. (topology, continuum theory, discrete dynamical systems.) chris seaton . 2004. b.a., kalamazoo college; ph.d., university of colorado at boulder. (differential geometry, differential topology, orbifolds, lie groupoids, singular symplectic reduction, invariant theory.) associate professors ibrahim abdelrazeq . 2015. b.s., yarmouk university; m.s., new mexico state university; ph.d., university of ottawa. (time series analysis, financial and actuarial mathematics, parametric and nonparametric goodness of fit tests.) erin n. bodine . 2010. e.c. ellett professorship of mathematics and computer science. b.s. and b.a., harvey mudd college; ph.d., university of tennessee, knoxville. (optimal control theory, mathematical ecology, differential equations, discrete difference equations, individual and agent based modeling.) eric gottlieb . 1998. b.s., antioch college; m.s., university of washington; ph.d., university of miami. (algebraic combinatorics.) assistant professors kyle dempsey . 2023. b.s., lambuth university; m.s. and ph.d., university of memphis. (educational games, distance education, child sexual abuse prevention.) erika parr. 2021. b.a., university of dallas; ph.d., arizona state university. (mathematics education)programs of study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53 129 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 pm printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/mathematics-and-statistics /mathematics-and-statistics-faculty-and-staff planning a major students considering a major in mathematics should contact the chair or another member of the department as early as possible to ensure progress is being made toward the major. more information can be found at the department’s web site: www.rhodes.edu/mathcs . for reasonable progress toward a major in mathematics, a student should begin the calculus sequence (math 112, 122 and 223) at the appropriate level in the first year, and complete the sequence before the spring of the second year; and complete math 201 in the first year or second year. printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/mathematics-and-statistics /planning-major requirements for a major in mathematics a total of forty-nine (49) credits as follows: 1. mathematics 122, 201, 223, 261, 386, and four credits of 485 and/or 486. 2. mathematics 386; students may petition to substitute 451/2 or participation in research fellowships/st. jude summer plus program for two terms before junior spring semester. see the department chair for more details. 3. seven additional four-credit courses from among computer science 141 and mathematics courses numbered above 200 (excluding 235) including at least four courses numbered above 300 (excluding 460, 495, and 496) with at least one course from each of the following breadth categories (where one course may count for more than one category): ◦ statistics : mathematics 211, 305, 311 ◦ modeling : mathematics 212, 214, 305, 315, 330; computer science 350; economics 407 ◦ proof : mathematics 311, 321, 362, 431, 482; computer science 350 programs of study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53 130 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 pm printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/mathematics-and-computer- science/requirements-major-mathematics requirements for a minor in mathematics a total of twenty-four (24) credits as follows: 1. mathematics 122. 2. five additional four-credit mathematics courses numbered above 200, excluding 235, including at least one course numbered above 300. computer science 350 can be used as a mathematics course numbered above 300. printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/mathematics-and-computer- science/requirements-minor-mathematics requirements for a minor in statistics a total of twenty (20) credits as follows: 1. one course from: math 211, psych 211, or econ 290. 2. math 212. 3. three additional courses from: math 235, 305, 307, 311, 312, 330, 331, 333; business 472; econ 420; intd 225 (geographic information systems). students planning to pursue graduate study in statistics are strongly encouraged to select math 311 and math 312 from the courses listed above and to take: 1. math 112, 122, 223, or equivalent three course calculus sequence. 2. math 201 transitions to advanced mathematics. 3. math 261 linear algebra. 4. math 321 real analysis. printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/mathematics-and-statistics /requirements-minor-statistics media studiesprograms of study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53 131 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 pm the mission of the media studies program is to enable students to become astute scholars, producers, and consumers of visual media. from film to tv to digital and social media, our worlds are saturated with and mediated by visual communications. media studies courses equip students with: 1) critical tools for critiquing visual media, 2) creative capabilities for producing digital art, and 3) practical communication skills for participating in globalized media networks. interdisciplinary by design, the media studies program is supported by faculty from three divisions—fine arts, humanities, and social sciences—in order to cover media theories and practices in the broadest sense and stress digital literacy and fluency across multiple media. its forward-thinking approach emphasizes interdisciplinarity, a globalized curriculum, and career readiness. printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/media-studies media studies: affiliated faculty rashna richards , department of english, chair affiliated faculty john bass , department of music marshall boswell , department of english karl erickson , department of art joy broke fairfield , media studies program han li , department of modern languages and literatures bradley harris , media studies program charles hughes , urban studies program sarah ifft decker , department of history sasha kostina , department of modern languages and literatures michael larosa , department of history laura loth , department of modern languages and literatures david mason , media studies programprograms of study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53 132 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 pm j. david maxson , media studies program david mccarthy , department of art samson ndanyi , department of history scott newstok , department of english clara pascual-argente , department of modern languages and literatures evelyn perry , department of anthropology and sociology rebecca tuvel , department of philosophy earl wright ii , department of anthropology and sociology yinyin xue , department of modern languages and literatures shaolu yu , urban studies program nikolaos zahariadis , department of international studies lynn zastoupil , department of history printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/media-studies/media-studies- affiliated-faculty requirements for a major in media studies a total of 40 credits as follows: 1. mst 202: topics in media studies or art 102: intro to digital art (4 credits) 2. mst 385: film and media theory (4 credits) 3. mst 485: senior seminar in media studies (4 credits) 4. 16 credits in one of the following two concentrations: a. film studies • ancient mediterranean studies 285: classical myth and its reception in modernprograms of study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53 133 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 pm film • chinese 207: orientalism and global china on screen • chinese 216/urban studies 265: asian urbanization through cinema • chinese 220/320: contemporary chinese cinema • english 190: shakespeare on screen • english 380: children's literature and media • english 381: african american film • english 381: film adaptation • french 334: french and francophone cinema • german 240/340: german cinema • history 105: black cinema • history 105: british empire through film • history 105: history of latin america through film • history 105: medieval at the movies • history 105: sex and death in african cinema • media studies 380: american television • russian 400: russian film • spanish 414: cinema of spain b. media production • art 105: painting or art 107: sculpture • art 110: film and experimental video production • art 116: digital animation • art 202: intermediate digital art • art 216: 3d animation/virtual realities • art 302: advanced digital art • art 386: experiments in media and methods • english 204: introduction to screenwriting • media studies 120: acting for new media • media studies 245: screenwriting • media studies 250: podcasting • media studies 265: lgbtq+ culture in media • music 222: music technology • music 323: audio engineering: history, theory, practice • music 365: advanced topics in music technology • urban studies 262: music and community in memphis • urban studies 382: music and community in memphis 5. electives (12 credits)programs of study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53 134 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 pm • any courses from the other media studies concentration • anthropology/sociology 333: sociology of hip-hop • anthropology/sociology 335: social class in the united states • art 245: guernica and antiwar art • english 264: race, media, and culture • history 105: elvis presley and america • history 305: history of american popular music • international studies 256: weapons of mass deception • media studies 240: public speaking • media studies 260: athletes, activism, and media • media studies 360: public memory, race, and place in memphis • media studies 370: cities in film • media studies 460: internship in media studies • philosophy 105: black mirror and philosophy • russian 285: putin’s russia and media • urban studies 365: the sounds of the city: music and urban experiences -- 16 out of 40 credits should be at the 300 or 400 level. -- 8 out of 40 credits must be in courses that focus on media outside the us. (chin 207, chin 216/urbn 265, chin 220/320, fren 334, grst 240/340, hist 105 (depending on topic), ints 256, russ 285, russ 400, span 414) printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/media-studies/requirements- major-media-studies requirements for a minor in film and media studies a total of twenty (20) credits as follows: 1. english 202: introduction to cinema 2. english 382: film theory 3. three courses to be chosen from a list of offerings in various departments. one of these requirements may be satisfied by a directed inquiry or an internship (on approval of the media studies committee). courses regularly offered include: 1. art 102: intro to digital art 2. art 116: animationprograms of study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53 135 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 pm 3. art 202: intermediate digital art 4. art 216: 3d animation/virtual realities 5. art 245: guernica and antiwar art 6. art 302: advanced digital art 7. chinese 216/urban studies 265: asian urbanization through cinema 8. chinese 220/320: contemporary chinese cinema 9. english 190: shakespeare on screen 10. english 204: introduction to screenwriting 11. english 241: history and criticism of american cinema 12. english 242: world film 13. english 245: special topics in film 14. english 381: advanced topics in film 15. french 334: french and francophone cinema 16. german 240/340: german cinema 17. history 105: black cinema 18. history 105: british empire through film 19. history 105: history of latin america through film 20. history 105: medieval at the movies 21. international studies 254: south africa through documentary film 22. international studies 256: weapons of mass deception 23. media studies 120: acting for new media 24. media studies 202: topics in media studies 25. media studies 240: public speakingprograms of study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53 136 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 pm 26. media studies 245: screenwriting 27. media studies 265: lgbtq+ culture in media 28. philosophy 105: black mirror and philosophy 29. politics and law 208: media and politics 30. politics and law 308: political advertising 31. russian 285: putin's russia and media 32. russian 400: russian film 33. spanish 414: cinema of spain 34. urban studies 262: music and community in memphis 35. urban studies 365: urban queer cinema 36. urban studies 382: music and community in memphis printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/media-studies/requirements- minor-film-and-media-studies modern languages and literatures the department of modern languages and literatures regularly offers instruction in chinese, french, german, russian, and spanish. details about the study of each of these languages at rhodes are found under the subject heading for that specific language. in addition to literature and culture courses in the modern languages, the department also offers some courses in literature and culture in english translation. classes in portuguese, italian, japanese, and arabic are available through consortial agreement with the university of memphis. the f10 degree requirement. the degree requirement in languages may be met by the successful completion of any appropriate four-credit course numbered 201 or higher or by demonstrating proficiency through placement into a language course at a level above 201 and approval by the appropriate language faculty. students who take 201 (or higher) or the equivalent at another institution can earn transfer credit, but must still demonstrate proficiency (see above) in the specific language before the degree requirement is satisfied. this pertains to languages that are taught at rhodes. multilingual students may petition to fulfill the requirement with a language not taught at rhodes via alternativeprograms of study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53 137 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 pm testing. students must submit their petition for alternative fulfillment of the f10 before the end of their second year. all students who plan to fulfill rhodes’ foreign language degree requirement in a language they have previously studied for two years or more in high school must take a placement test in that language. for french, german, russian, and spanish, scores on that test will be used to place students in the course most appropriate for them at rhodes. students with fewer than two years in a language may enter that language at the 101 level. a student may not take a course numbered 101 in any language for academic credit if two or more years of that language were completed in high school. any student who scores at the 202 level or higher on the placement test will need to consult with the department to see if he or she fulfills rhodes’ foreign language requirement. students wishing to fulfill the f10 requirement in a language not previously studied should sign up for a course numbered 101 in that language. in the modern languages, placement tests typically cover reading comprehension and grammar. literature or culture courses taken in translation do not satisfy the foreign language degree requirement. printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/modern-languages-and- literatures chinese the mission of the current chinese studies program is to educate students in chinese language, literature, culture, history, politics and religion, and to provide students with academic knowledge and experiences to understand china as both an ancient civilization and an emerging global power. in this spirit, chinese studies majors will also learn to appreciate their own positions vis-à-vis the challenges inherent in china's rise to global prominence, confronting difficult questions of nationalism and ethnocentrism. as an interdisciplinary program, chinese studies draws on faculty expertise from various departments and prepares students for post-graduate studies, china related employment opportunities and future engagement of china. printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/modern-languages-and- literatures/chinese requirements for a major in chinese studies a total of 36 credits as follows:programs of study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53 138 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 pm 1. chinese 301 (advanced chinese i) and 302 (advanced chinese ii). china maymester may be substituted for one of the above. 2. one of the following: chinese 306: introduction to east asian cultures chinese 314: introduction to chinese culture 3. two of the following: chinese 305: modern chinese literature in translation chinese 307: orientalism and global china on screen chinese 315: gender in chinese literature chinese 316: asian urbanization/cinema chinese 318: taste, culture and power: asia and global foodways chinese 320: contemporary chinese cinema (chinese 305-320 can be taken in conjunction with one credit of 311.) chinese 409: special topics 4. three of the following: (the three courses must be taken from more than one discipline) history 282: traditional china history 283: modern china history 481: cold war in east asia religious studies 258 topics: history of religions (buddhism) ints 261: government and politics of chinaprograms of study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53 139 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 pm ints 262: china’s foreign policy ints 263: comparative political economy of east asia ints 264: china-taiwan-us relations 5. chinese 485: senior seminar printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/modern-languages-and- literatures/chinese/requirements-major-chinese-studies requirements for a minor in chinese studies a total of twenty (20) credits in chinese language (above the level of intermediate chinese 202), literature and culture. the credits are spread across the following courses: 1. chinese 301 and 302: advanced chinese* 2. two of the chinese literature and culture courses: chinese 205: modern chinese literature in translation chinese 206: introduction to east asian cultures chinese 207: orientalism and global china on screen chinese 210: chinese literary heritage chinese 214: introduction to chinese culture chinese 215: gender in chinese literature chinese 216: asian urbanization through cinema chinese 218: taste, culture and power: asia and global foodways chinese 220: contemporary chinese cinema chinese 409: special topicsprograms of study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53 140 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 pm 3. one of the following courses: history 282: traditional china history 283: modern china religious studies 258 topics: history of religions (buddhism) international studies 261: government and politics of china international studies 262: china’s foreign policy international studies 263: comparative political economy of east asia international studies 264: china-taiwan-us relations *students may substitute 409 for 301 or 302. printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/modern-languages-and- literatures/chinese/requirements-minor-chinese-studies french and francophone studies printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/modern-languages-and- literatures/french-and-francophone-studies honors in french and francophone studies a minimum of 40 hours above 201 in french; a research paper on a specific cultural or literary topic; demonstrated proficiency in spoken and written french. a study abroad experience in a french-speaking country is recommended but not required. approval by the department of modern languages and literatures is required. printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/modern-languages-and- literatures/french-and-francophone-studies/honors-french-and requirements for a major in french and francophone studiesprograms of study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53 141 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 pm a total of forty (40) credits as follows: 1. french 201 and 202*. 2. french 301, 486. 3. french 320, 321 or 322. 4. french 323, 324 or 335. 5. sixteen (16) additional credits in french (4 four-credit courses) four of which must be at the 300-400 level, depending on initial language placement. students who choose to take appropriate 300-400 level courses offered by the french section in english may count up to two such courses toward the major, as long as they have a french language component. majors are strongly encouraged to spend a semester or a year in a french or francophone university. departmentally pre-approved courses taken there will normally be accepted as courses in the major. *french 201 may count towards the major. students whose placement is above the 201 level are neither required nor allowed to take courses numbering below their placement level for credit towards the major. students placing above 201 are still required to take a total of 40 credits for the major. printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/modern-languages-and- literatures/french-and-francophone-studies/requirements-major requirements for a minor in french and francophone studies a total of twenty (20) credits as follows: 1. french 201 and 202*. 2. french 301. 3. french 320, 321, 322, 323, 324, or 335. 4. additional elective four-credit courses at the 300-400 level. minors are strongly encouraged to study in a french or francophone university. courses taken abroad should be pre-approved by the section head to count towards the minor.programs of study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53 142 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 pm students who choose to take appropriate 300-400 level courses offered by the french section in english may count only one such course toward the minor, as long as the course has a french component. *french 201 may count towards the minor. students whose placement is above the 201 level are neither required nor allowed to take courses numbering below their placement level for credit toward the minor. students placing above 201 are still required to take 20 credits for the minor. printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/modern-languages-and- literatures/french-and-francophone-studies/requirements-minor german studies printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/modern-languages-and- literatures/german-studies honors in german a minimum of 40 credits above german 201; a research paper on a specific literary, linguistic, or cultural topic; demonstrated proficiency in spoken and written german. printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/modern-languages-and- literatures/german-studies/honors-german requirements for a major in german studies requirements for a major in german studies a total of nine courses (36 credits) as follows: 1. the german studies major begins from the point of student’s german language course placement. no course below a student’s language course placement can be counted towards the german studies major. 2. student must complete german 301, 302, and 486 (capstone project). 3. german 301 or 302 must be taken before any other 300-level course is attempted but may be taken concurrently with other 300-level courses. 4. students must complete german 320 or 321.programs of study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53 143 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 pm 5. german 305 taken abroad may be substituted for either 301 or 302, but not both. 6. concentrations (choose one): a: german language, literature, and culture students may include one german studies course taught in english or any relevant course with approval of major advisor. b: interdisciplinary german students may include two german studies courses taught in english or any relevant course with approval of major advisor. the focus of the “german language, literature, and culture” concentration is the development of advanced language and cultural proficiency and an in-depth critical understanding of the german-speaking world. the focus of the “interdisciplinary german” concentration is for students to develop upper-intermediate german language proficiency and a critical understanding of the german-speaking world from interdisciplinary perspectives. majors are strongly encouraged to participate in the exchange program with the university of tübingen, the university of landau, or with a departmentally approved isep program during their junior years; equivalent courses from there will be accepted as substitutes. printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/modern-languages-and- literatures/german-studies/requirements-major-german-studies requirements for a minor in german studies a total of six courses (24 credits) as follows: 1. the german studies minor begins from the point of student’s german language course placement. no course below a student’s language course placement can be counted towards the german studies minor. 2. student must complete german 301 and 302. 3. students initially placing into 102 or higher must complete german 320 or 321. 4. german 301 or 302 must be taken before any other 300-level course is attempted but may be taken concurrently with other 300-level courses.programs of study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53 144 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 pm 5. german 305 taken abroad may be substituted for either 301 or 302, but not both. 6. students may include one german studies course taught in english or any relevant course with approval of minor advisor. minors are strongly encouraged to participate in an approved summer german immersion or study abroad program. see minor adviser for details. printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/modern-languages-and- literatures/german-studies/requirements-minor-german-studies modern languages and literatures: faculty and staff associate professors kathleen anne doyle. 1999. b.a., saint xavier college, chicago; m.a. and ph.d., university of chicago (spanish language, modernism in spain, contemporary peninsular spanish literature, gender and sexuality studies) han li. 2008. chair. b.a. nanjing university; ph.d. university of california, irvine (literature and culture of late imperial china.) eric henager. 1995. b.a., rhodes college; m.a. and ph.d., university of illinois (spanish language, contemporary latin american literatures and cultures, popular culture and literature, latin american studies) alexandra kostina. 1996. m.a. novgorod state university; ph.d. gornyi university/russian state pedagogical university (russian language, linguistics, and culture) laura loth. 2009. b.a. college of william and mary; m.a. and ph.d., university of minnesota (french and francophone literature and film, environmental studies, film studies) clara pascual-argente. 2011. b.a. and m.a. universidad de salamanca; ph.d. georgetown university (medieval and early modern spanish literature, film studies) elizabeth marcela pettinaroli. 2007. b.a. franklin and marshall college; m.a. and ph.d., university of virginia (latin american literature, ecocritical studies, urban and environmental studies, bibliodiversity, spanish language in socio-cultural contexts)programs of study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53 145 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 pm alberto del pozo martínez. 2008. licenciado en filología, universidad de zaragoza. m.a. and ph.d. vanderbilt university (modern spanish american literature and literary theory.) assistant professors stacey e. battis . 2022. b.a. smith college; m.a. and ph.d. university of california, berkeley (early modern french literature, french and francophone studies, gender and sexuality studies) rachel noël bauer. 2008. b.a. duquesne university; m.a. purdue university; ph.d. vanderbilt university (early modern spanish literature, golden age narrative, don quixote de la mancha.) juanita bernal benavides. 2022. b.a. and m.a. universidad de los andes; ph.d. university of michigan kathryn holihan . 2021. b.a. oberlin college; ph.d, university of michigan (late-19th through 20th-century german studies, science studies, museum studies) bruce m. jackson, jr . 2021. b.a. and m.a. middle tennessee state university; ph.d. university of tennessee, knoxville (mid-19th to mid-20th century spanish peninsular literature and culture, minority cultures in contemporary spain) abou-bakar mamah. 2018. b.a. and m.a. university of lomé, togo; ph.d. university of minnesota (french critical theory, structuralism, french and francophone studies.) ricardo martins. 2023. b.a. universidade federal de minas gerais; m.a. and ph.d. indiana university (mid-20th century - contemporary transnational and latin american literature and cinema, brazilian favelas, videogames, media studies) nina morais. 2023. b.a. federal university of minas gerais; m.a. indiana university. (transcultural, transnational and migration studies; germany-africa and germany-south america relations; contemporary german theater and film) catherine sundt. 2012. b.a. grand valley state university; m.a. and ph.d. the ohio state university (modern spanish literature and urban literature.) yinyin xue. 2020. b.a. sichuan international studies university; m.a. peking university; m.a. and ph.d. university of wisconsin-madison (twentieth-century chinese literature and culture)programs of study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53 146 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 pm instructors sarah finley. 2020. b.a. and m.ed. vanderbilt university (french language and francophone cultures). hernán garrido. 2016. b.a. andrews university; m.a. university of mississippi (spanish language and hispanic cultures). yang qi . 2019. b.a. zhejiang university; m.ed. university at buffalo-suny (teaching english to speakers of other languages); phd. university of florida (curriculum and instruction). staff christy waldkirch. 2005. departmental assistant. printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/modern-languages-and- literatures/modern-languages-and-literatures-faculty-and-staff modern languages and literatures: general courses modern languages 150. selected foreign languages. credits: variable. certain foreign languages not listed above as regular course offerings are taught on occasion. information concerning languages not regularly taught may be obtained from the registrar or the department chair. modern languages 240. language acquisition and pedagogy. spring. credits: 4 this course is a survey of a range of issues related to language acquisition and teaching. among the areas covered are instructional methodologies and approaches, second language acquisition theories, language skill development, language teaching and learning technology, communicative and cultural competency, and assessment. rhodes offers a secondary licensure program within the teaching and learning track of the educational studies major. this program prepares students to teach middle and/orprograms of study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53 147 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 pm high school in one of eleven endorsement areas, including the following languages: chinese, english, french, german, latin, russian, and spanish. the course of study for secondary licensure students is designed with guidance from faculty members in the discipline in which the student is being certified as well as members of the educational studies program. all secondary licensure candidates are required to double major in educational studies and their endorsement discipline. modern languages 260. international science fiction and utopia: shaping of ideological landscapes summer. credits: 4 degree requirements: f4 and f9 we are living through a time of great socio-political transformations, and history shows us that many cultural products labeled “science fiction” have become perfect metaphors of our fears and hopes (eg: brave new world and 1984). up to a point, science fiction allows us to objectively see the aspirations and taboos of our intellectual and ideological landscape. but what is then the relation between science fiction and utopia? in this course, we will widely question the limits of these two concepts by bringing together novels and films belonging to different cultural traditions. we will go far beyond the limits of anglo-saxon cultural production (more, huxley, orwell, or kubrick, among others) and engage a body of international cultural texts and films (zamyatin, borges, lem, godard) which could help us understand the limits and points of contact of each tradition/culture; that is to say, the narrative nature of our "worlds." modern languages 280. introduction to general linguistics. spring. credits: 4 degree requirements: f9 the introduction to general linguistics course presents language as a specific object of knowledge, thought, science, and philosophy. students will be introduced to the major linguistic theories and examine language as a system and structure at its various levels, as well as a tool to guide, plan, and monitor human activity. offered in alternate years. modern languages 460. internship. fall, spring. credits: 1-4 degree requirements: f11 internships in the departmental languages are occasionally available for language majorsprograms of study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53 148 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 pm and permit a qualified student to receive academic credit for an internship experience on or off campus, for example by working with a business, a non-profit organization, or within the department itself. the internship, which requires of the student an advanced competence in a foreign language, must entail a significant encounter with a foreign language. working with a faculty mentor, students must submit a project proposal for the internship prior to the beginning of the internship itself. the completed project will be graded by the faculty mentor. intradepartmental internships will be reserved for students planning to continue their studies in a foreign language and culture beyond the undergraduate level. such internal internships will involve working with a faculty mentor on projects of a diverse nature that seek to enhance the program offerings of the language section. placements must be approved by the faculty mentor who teaches the language in question and the chair of the department. internship credit will not be awarded retroactively and does not count toward the total number of credits required for the major or minor. pass/fail only. printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/modern-languages-and- literatures/modern-languages-and-literatures-general-courses russian printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/modern-languages-and- literatures/russian programs abroad students can spend a summer, semester, or academic year in russia through such nationally-recognized programs as the council for international and educational exchange (ciee), the american council on the teaching of russian (actr),school of russian and asian studies (sras), and american institue for foreign study (aifs). summer internships in russia are available through crossroads eurasia. printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/modern-languages-and- literatures/russian/programs-abroad requirements for a major in russian studies a total of thirty-six (36) credits above russian 201 as follows:programs of study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53 149 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 pm 1. russian 202. intermediate russian 2. russian 205: the russian religious mind; and either russian 212: prophets, princesses, and revolutionaries or russian 300: dostoevsky 3. two courses from russian 301, 302, 309 (all advanced russian) 4. russian 410: analytical reading, russian 486: senior seminar 5. russian 285: putin’s russia and the media and ml280: introduction into general linguistics majors are encouraged to spend at least one semester studying in russia. printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/modern-languages-and- literatures/russian/requirements-major-russian-studies requirements for a minor in russian studies a total of twenty (20) credits as follows: 1. russian 202 (intermediate russian), 301 (advanced russian), 302 (advanced russian) 2. two of the following: russian 205: russian religious mind, 212: prophets, princesses, and revolutionaries, 285: putin’s russian and the media, 300: dostoevsky, 410: analytical reading substitutions are possible (say, you took a relevant course in is or history, they can be applied toward your major or minor), which may make it easier to major or minor in russian studies. printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/modern-languages-and- literatures/russian/requirements-minor-russian-studies russian: offerings 101-102. elementary russian. fall, spring. credits: 4-4.programs of study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53 150 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 pm elementary grammar, reading, and conversation, supplemented by materials on russian culture. 201-202. intermediate russian. fall, spring. credits: 4-4. degree requirement: f10 for 201. intermediate grammar and continued training in conversation and composition, supplemented by materials on contemporary developments in russian society. reading of russian texts of graded difficulty, intermediate writing. prerequisites : russian 101-102 or equivalent. 205. the russian religious mind. fall. credits: 4. degree requirements: f1, f4 the course examines the distinct world-consciousness of russian religious tradition and thought, with emphasis on the themes of god, good and evil, love, the search for divine justice on earth, the material world as sanctified, and the moral content of spiritualized beauty. reading materials are on wisdom of orthodox monastics, form russian religious philosophers, as well as contemporary writers. 209. russian in russia. summer. credits: 4. degree requirements: f10 for 209, f11. a 3-4 week guided encounter with the language and culture aimed at solidifying vocabulary and grammar previously acquired. a significant cultural component is part of the course. takes place in may-june. 212. prophets, princesses, and revolutionaries: 19th-century russian voices. fall or spring. credits: 4. degree requirements: f2i, f4. elective for gss minor. reading of representative works by major russian writers of the nineteenth centuryprograms of study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53 151 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 pm (including pushkin, pavlova, gogol, goncharov, soboleva, turgenev, tolstoy, and dostoevsky). the literary works include eugene onegin, supernatural tales by gogol, short stories by women writers, and novels by turgenev and dostoevsky. these works will be studied for their individual merit, what they illuminate about nineteenth-century russian society, and their contribution to the rise of the russian novel. all works are read in translation. 215. giants of russia’s silver age: soloviev, blok, and rachmaninoff. spring. credits: 4. degree requirements: f5, f9. study of the aesthetic, thematic, and personal connections among three of russia’s towering figures: vladimir soloviev, alexander blok, and sergei rachmaninoff. the course will examine in depth the creative works of the philosopher-poet soloviev, the poet- dramatist blok, and the composer-pianist rachmaninoff (for whom poetry was second only to music). master themes and global concepts linking the three creative artists include the yearning for harmony; exploration of russian orthodox religiosity; elevation of the –eternal feminineî of sophia (the body of god); and connection between beauty and goodness. representative philosophical, poetic, and musical works, respectively, of the three artists will be examined. offered in alternate years. prerequisite : at least one course from the following departments or programs: music, philosophy, religious studies, or russian studies. 255. catherine the great and the enlightenment: the italian-russian connection. fall or spring. credits: 4. degree requirements: f5, f9. in this course students investigate the italian-russian connections in three major areas of cultural production during the reign of catherine the great: music, literature, and architecture. creative thinkers whose works will be studied include bortnyansky, paisiello, casanova, beccaria, rastrelli, and quarenghi. students will learn features of the european and russian enlightenments, study the intricacies of russian court culture, and explore the institution of patronage. the course aims to develop an understanding of cross-cultural fertilization and some major differences between mediterranean and slavic cultures. it is complemented by an optional, though highly recommended, three-week study trip to italy and russia (see russian 256). offered in alternate years. 256. catherine the great and the italian-russian connection.programs of study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53 152 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 pm summer. credits: 0-1. degree requirements: f11. this maymester program examines the musical, literary, and architectural connections between italy and russia during the reign of catherine the great. it takes participants to three cities: rome, milan, and st. petersburg. in rome students will attend lectures at lumsa (university adjacent to the vatican), attend a musical performance at the teatro dell’opera, visit places associated with giacomo casanova, and investigate architectural monuments by italian architects whom catherine attracted to russia. in milan participants will attend an opera at the teatro all scala and visit sites associated with cesare beccaria. in st. petersburg students will attend performances in the great hall of the st. petersburg philharmonic and the mariinsky theatre, and will study major architectural ensembles. takes place in may and june. 285. putin's russia and the media spring. credits: 4. degree requirements: f9. elective for media studies major/minor. this course explores a wide array of important media, print, and filmic sources that are underrepresented in western narratives about contemporary russia. students utilize the study of these materials in order to better understand russia today, and especially to gain awareness of how the media can shape public opinion. while calling attention to media bias, the course serves as an entry to contemporary russian society, providing observers of russia with a fuller understanding of her geopolitical perspectives and vision for the twenty first century. (cross-listed with i.s. 285). 300. dostoevsky. fall or spring. credits: 4. degree requirements: f4, f9. this course explores selected works by dostoevsky in the context of the rise of the russian novel. the course will examine in depth several short works by the writer, as well as the novels the idiot and the brothers karamazov. concentration is on the major literary, philosophical, and religious issues dostoevsky raises in his prose, as well as how these issues better enable us to understand the russian mind. all works are read in translation. 301-302. advanced russian.programs of study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53 153 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 pm fall, spring. credits: 4-4. advanced grammar, with greater emphasis on the refinement of conversation and composition skills. discussion of topics related to contemporary life in russia. prerequisites : russian 201-202 or equivalent. 309. russian in russia. summer. credits: 4. degree requirements: f11. a 3-4 week guided encounter with the language and culture aimed at solidifying vocabulary and grammar previously acquired. a significant cultural component is part of the course. takes place in may-june. 400. russian film: film theory. spring. credits: 4. degree requirements: f5. introduction to the ideological and aesthetic forces that have shaped the development of soviet/russian film, with particular attention to various film theories. films of major directors, such as eisenstein, pudovkin, tarkovsky, kulidzhanov, and sokurov will be studied. all films are subtitled; course is taught in english. offered in alternate years. 410. analytical reading. fall. credits: 4. this course aims to teach students the strategies of understanding texts of high literary quality by analyzing elements of given texts in their complexity. while focusing mainly on psycho-poetic aspects of reading activity, the course also introduces formal approaches to text analysis, such as identifying the stylistic devices and expressive means employed by the authors. 486. senior seminar. spring. credits: 4. students will be assigned individual research topics associated with the essential concept of the russian idea, give weekly progress reports, which will involve analytical discussion, and present their results orally and in writing at the end of the course. special attention willprograms of study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53 154 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 pm be given to assigned readings from the russian press and from russian literature. 495-496. honors tutorial. fall, spring. credits: 4-8, 4-8. printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/modern-languages-and- literatures/russian/russian-offerings spanish printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/modern-languages-and- literatures/spanish honors in spanish a minimum of 40 credits above spanish 202, reading in a field of specialization and preparation of a paper in that field; examinations covering spanish literature, spanish american literature and civilization, spanish grammar and spanish civilization, and the field of specialization. approval by the department of modern languages and literatures is required. printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/modern-languages-and- literatures/spanish/honors-spanish requirements for a major in spanish a total of thirty-six (36) credits above spanish 202. at least five courses must be completed at or above the 310 level. required courses are the following: 1. spanish 301 or 302. (the other may be taken as an elective) 2. spanish 303, 306, and 486. 3. five elective courses, at least four of which must be numbered 310 or above. printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/modern-languages-and- literatures/spanish/requirements-major-spanish requirements for a minor in spanishprograms of study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53 155 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 pm a total of twenty (20) credits above spanish 202. at least one course must be completed at or above the 310 level. required courses are the following: 1. spanish 301 or 302. (the other may be taken as an elective) 2. spanish 303 or 306. (the other may be taken as an elective) 3. three elective courses, at least one of which must be numbered 310 or above. printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/modern-languages-and- literatures/spanish/requirements-minor-spanish the language learning and resource center the language learning and resource center is a dynamic resource space for all language students and faculty. the center offers a variety of technology, digital media, and non-digital resources, as well as free language tutoring. it offers professional development opportunities and curricular support for rhodes language faculty and functions as space for student-centered language and culture club events, departmental events, and academic symposia. the language learning and resource center is supervised by the language center director and a student rsa and has numerous employment opportunities for interested language students. printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/modern-languages-and- literatures/language-learning-and-resource-center music music music provides opportunities for all students to be involved with musical performances on campus. the mission of music at rhodes college is to serve as a catalyst for life-long learning and appreciation for music. our mission is to generate a comprehensive, diverse, flexible program of excellence in music, appealing to students of all walks of life at the college. our intention is to help students develop aural, analytical and aesthetic intelligences and abilities, and prepare them for professional careers and/or graduate work in music, as desired. our purpose is to create true appreciators of music as an art form and discipline, and to facilitate the human and spiritual growth of all who connect and engage with the department, whether by participating or observing. rhodes college is an accredited institutional member of the national association of schools of music [nasm] . becoming a music majorprograms of study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53 156 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 pm music majors are required to undergo a sophomore-year review in february. this review helps assess academic and artistic progress and helps focus direction for the remainder of their undergraduate studies in music. students must complete a declaration of major form which includes: an outline of their proposed course of study, an essay which details why they wish to major in music, and consultation with their academic advisor. the review includes assessment of all previous juries, review of the student's declaration of major form, and an interview with full-time music faculty. performance opportunities all students are invited to enroll in performance ensembles. see course offerings: musc 181 through 199. all students are invited to enroll in private (applied) lessons in voice/instrument. see course offerings: musc 160 through 180. applied lesson fee applied music fee. students enrolled in applied music will be charged an additional fee of $490.00 per credit for private lessons. after the first applied music lesson, this applied lesson fee is nonrefundable. once declared, music majors will have the applied music fees waived for up to eight (8) credits of their principal applied instrument. music majors taking more than eight (8) credits of applied music and lessons taken prior to declaration of the major will be charged the applied fee for those credits. once declared, music minors will have the applied music fees waived for up to four (4) credits of applied music and lessons taken prior to declaration of the minor will be charged the applied fee for those credits. *all students enrolled in 20 or more credits in a semester are assessed the extra fee for each credit beginning with the 20th credit. when one of those credits is an applied music course which carries its own fee, the following happens: students who are neither music majors nor music minors are assessed the applied music fee, but have the extra hour fee removed from their account. students who are either music majors or music minors have the applied music fee removed from their account, but are assessed the extra credit fee at a rate that is equal to the current applied music fee. printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/musicprograms of study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53 157 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 pm music: faculty and staff professors carole choate blankenship. 1990. chair. b.a., rhodes college; m.m., d.m.a., university of memphis. (voice, senior seminar, opera scenes.) courtenay l. harter. 2000. b.f.a., carnegie mellon university; m.m., northwestern university; ph.d., university of connecticut. (music theory, music & psychology, oboe/english horn, chamber music.) william m. skoog. 2009. b.a., gustavus adolphus college; m.a., university of denver; d.a., university of northern colorado. (director of choral activities, conducting.) associate professors john b. bass, iii. 2010. b.m., university of southern mississippi; m.m., ph.d., university of memphis. (director of the mike curb institute, african-american studies, jazz studies, improvisation, guitar.) thomas e. bryant. 1987. b.m., m.m., university of georgia; d.m., northwestern university. (piano, collaborative piano, music literature.) vanessa l. rogers. 2010. b.m.e., illinois wesleyan university; m.a., ph.d., university of southern california. (music history, music literature, search.) assistant professors jacob sunshine. 2023. b.a.., columbia university; m.a., ph.d. a.b.d., harvard university. (ethnomusicology, african/african-american studies, jazz studies, guitar.) adjunct instructors mike assad. b.m., university of kentucky; m.m., university of memphis. (percussion, world drum ensemble.) whitney branan . b.a., wagner college; sag-aftra. (dance, choreogrophy.) elizabeth cawein. b.a., murray state university; m.a., brunel university. (music urbanism, mike curb institute for music.) barrie cooper. b.m., ithaca college; m.m., peabody conservatory. memphis symphony orchestra. (violin.) jenny davis. b.m., middle tennessee state university; m.m., boston university. d.m.a. candidate, university of south carolina. (flute, flute ensemble.) rena feller. b.m., oberlin college conservatory of music; m.m., the juilliard school. memphis symphony orchestra. (clarinet.) tyler fritts. b.a., berea college; m.m., university of louisville; ph.d, university of memphis. (musicology, southern regional studies.) alaina graiser . b.m., univeristy of texas; m.m., university of toronto; d.m.a., cinicinnatiprograms of study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53 158 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 pm college conservatory of music. (harp.) dennis janzer. b.s., marquette university; m.s., marquette university; b.a., m.m., university of wisconsin-milwaukee; d.m.a., university of miami. (organ.) marcus king. b.m.e., university of memphis; m.m., university of memphis. (voice.) ellen b. koziel. b.a., radford university; m.m., university of memphis; ph.d., university of memphis. (rhodes camerata.) will lang. b.a., rhodes college; m.m., university of memphis. (jazz ensemble.) francisco lara. b.m., northwestern university, m.m., ph.d., florida state university. (musicology, ethnomusicology.) david t. lay. b.m., lambuth university. (guitar.) michael mckenzie . b.m.e., university of memphis. (trumpet.) sean o'hara. b.m., the julliard school; m.m., carnegie mellon university. (classical bass.) žak ozmo. b.m., wilfrid laurier university; m.m., d.m.a., university of southern california. (music history, music and healing.) brian ray. b.m., university of tennessee at martin; m.m., university of memphis; d.m.a., university of memphis. (piano, department collaborative pianist.) john ross. b.m., northern illinois university; m.m., illinois state university. (guitar, guitar ensemble.) alisha rufty. b.m.e., florida state university; m.m., d.m.a., univeristy of memphis. (cello.) jane gerard-schranze. b.m., eastman school of music; m.m., new england conservatory. (viola, violin, chamber music.) sylvester sample. b.s., university of memphis; m.b.a., illinois institute of technology. (jazz bass.) jonathan h. schallert. b.m.e., harding university; m.m., ph.d., university of memphis. (orchestra, conducting, music theory.) david l. shotsberger. b.m., m.m., pennsylvania state university; d.m.a., university of memphis. (music technology, composition, jazz band.) debra h. smith. b.m., mississippi college; m.m., university of memphis. (piano, organ, music literature and theory.) bradley sowell. b.m.e., georgia college; m.m. university of south dakota; d.m.a. candidate, university of memphis. (voice.) gerald stephens. b.f.a., university of memphis. (jazz piano.) kate stimson. b.a., hollins college; m.m., university of memphis. (piano.) mark vail. b.m., university of north texas. memphis symphony orchestra. (trombone, low brass.) yukiko whitehead. b.m., university of tennessee; m.m., d.m.a., university of memphis; yamaha music foundation suzuki piano teachers certificate, suzuki association of america. (piano.) carl r. wolfe. u.s. navy chief musician (ret.); u.s. armed forces school of music. memphis jazz orchestra. (saxophone.)programs of study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53 159 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 pm staff erika pope. 2016. musical arts coordinator. b.a., henderson state university. printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/music/music-faculty-and-staff requirements for music industry studies certificates requirements for the certificate in content production students must complete a total of 14 credits as follows: 1. musc/urbn 262: music & community in memphis (2 credits) 2. twelve (12) credits from the following electives: musc 222: music tech i musc 322: music tech ii musc 323: audio engineering: history, theory, & practice musc/urbn 382: music & community in memphis ii art 102: intro to digital art i art 110: film & experimental video production art 115: creative publishing: zines, comics, manifestos, and artist’s books art 202: intermediate digital art mst 120: acting for new media mst 245: screenwriting engl 206+207: creative publishing i & ii relevant department or program topics courses approved by curb institute director and department/program chair 3. mike curb institute fellowship (one semester minimum) requirements for the certificate in arts entrepreneurship students must complete a total of 14 credits as follows: 1. musc/urbn 262: music & community in memphis (2 credits) 2. twelve (12) credits from the following electives: programs of study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53 160 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 pm musc 250: music urbansim musc/urbn: survey of music industry studies musc/urbn 382: music & community in memphis ii musc 140: music & healing bus 125: intro to entreprenuership mst 265: lgbtq++ culture in media plaw 208: media & politics plaw: urban politics and policy urbn 340: non-profits in the city relevant department or program topics courses approved by curb institute director and department/program chair 3. mike curb institute fellowship (one semester minimum) printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/music/requirements-music- industry-studies-certificates requirements for a minor in dance a total of twenty-two (22) credits as follows: 1. dance performance (14 credits) musc 150 (dance for musical theatre) [f5] musc 155 (topics in dance) [f5 pending] musc 251 (adv jazz/contemporary dance) [f5] musc 255 (advanced topics in dance) 2. musical structure (4 credits, dependent on placement): musc 103 (elements of music) [f5] or musc 204 (understanding musicianship) [f5] or one from musc 306-313 [f6 & f2i available] 3. dance in culture (4 credits/1 course): musc 265 (history of musical theatre) [f3 & f5] musc 231/hist 226 (musical paris 1870-1940) [f3 & f5] anso 333 (sociology and hip hop) [f9] other courses/topics as approved by department. programs of study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53 161 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 pm printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/music/requirements-minor-dance requirements for a major in music a total of fifty-two (52) credits as follows: 1. music theory courses (12 credits) a. musc 204: understanding musicianship [f5]* b. two 300-level music theory courses (306-313) *if placement test determines this course is redundant, choose three (3) 300-level music theory courses. 2. music history & literature courses (12 credits) a. musc 227: western art music i [f3] b. musc 228: western art music ii [f3] c. one f9 elective: musc 116, 117, 118, 119, 130, or select 105 sections 3. performance courses (12 credits) a. 6 semesters of applied music lessons (musc 160-180 = 1 credit each) b. 6 semesters of large ensembles (musc 181-184, 190-194 = 1 credit each) 4. senior experience (8 credits) a. musc 485-486: senior seminar & presentation (4 credits)** b. musc 414: conducting i (2 credits) c. musc 415: conducting ii or 300-level composition (2 credits) **co-requisite of applied music lessons (if choosing a performance project) or co-requisite of applied composition lessons (if choosing a composition project). 5. music electives (8 credits) musc 101 does not fulfill this requirement. once declared, music majors will have the applied music fees waived for up to eight (8) credits of their principal applied instrument. music majors taking more than eight (8) credits of applied music and lessons taken prior to declaration of the major will be charged the applied fee for those credits. note: fine arts scholarship waivers for applied music fees are outlined in the award letter which supersedes music major and minor fee waivers outlined here.programs of study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53 162 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 pm printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/music/requirements-major-music requirements for a minor in music a total of twenty-four (24) credits as follows: 1. one music theory course (4 credits) a. musc 204: understanding musicianship or one (1) 300-level music theory course (306-313), depending on placement. 2. one music history & literature course (4 credits) a. musc 227: western art music i [f3] b. musc 228: western art music ii [f3] 3. performance courses (8 credits) a. 4 semesters of applied lessons (musc 160-180 = 1 credit each) b. 4 semesters of large ensembles (musc 181-184, 190-194 = 1 credit each) 4. two 4-credit music electives (8 credits) a. courses from musc 160-199 do not fulfill this requirement. once declared, music minors will have the applied music fees waived for up to four (4) credits of their principal applied instrument. music minors taking more than four (4) credits of applied music and lessons taken prior to declaration of the minor will be charged the applied fee for those credits. note: fine arts scholarship waivers for applied music fees are outlined in the award letter which supersedes music major and minor fee waivers outlined here. printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/music/requirements-minor-music music theory placement a music theory placement test is given by the department to determine a student’s skill level. any student demonstrating the appropriate degree of proficiency may place into either music 204 or a 300-level music theory elective. students may, alternatively, fulfill this prerequisite by taking music 103 before beginning the theory sequence. contact dr.programs of study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53 163 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 pm courtenay harter for more information. harterc@rhodes.edu printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/music/music-theory-placement honors in music all honors in music candidates must meet the college's eligibility criteria established for the honors program. only students with a minimum overall gpa of 3.5 and a gpa within the major of 3.5 by the end of the fall semester of their junior year will be eligible to pursue honors. in addition to fulfilling the requirements for the major, students seeking honors will be expected to complete the following additional work: 1. the one-credit honors tutorial, music 399, in spring of the junior year: in consultation with an appropriate member of the music faculty, the honors candidate must write a proposal for honors work, positing a substantial honors thesis or creative project that demonstrates an exceptional understanding of the area(s) studied, to be implemented in the senior year. the department must approve the proposal. 2. the senior honors tutorials, music 495-496, in fall and spring of the senior year. an overall grade of a- on the thesis or project itself is required for honors credit. printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/music-and-theatre/honors-music neuroscience the interdisciplinary major in neuroscience at rhodes bridges the fields of biology, psychology, chemistry and philosophy. the major provides students with an understanding of the methodological challenges and conceptual issues that lie at the heart of efforts to understand the function of the nervous system and its role in behavior. printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/neuroscience honors in neuroscience in addition to maintaining a cumulative and major gpa of at least 3.5, honors candidates are required to enroll in neuroscience 399 in the spring of their junior year. by the start of the senior year, the candidate must submit a proposal for an independent research project for approval by the program committee. up to 8 credits of neuroscience 495-496 are taken each semester of the senior year. in addition to submitting a written report, theprograms of study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53 164 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 pm candidate is required to make an oral presentation at the conclusion of the research project. the honors degree in neuroscience is contingent upon committee acceptance of the research manuscript. printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/neuroscience/honors- neuroscience neuroscience: program committee professors david kabelik . 2009. h.b.sc., university of toronto; ph.d., arizona state university. (neuroscience, endocrinology, physiology, animal behavior.) associate professors kelly a. dougherty . 2014. b.s., west chester university; ph.d., thomas jefferson university. (neuroscience, biophysics, neurophysiology.) jason haberman . 2014. b.a., university of miami; m.a. and ph.d., university of california - davis. (neuroscience: visual psychophysics; object recognition, ensemble perception.) rebecca klatzkin . 2011. b.s., university of richmond; ph.d., university of north carolina, chapel hill. (behavioral neuroscience: stress; eating behavior; binge eating disorder.) larryn w. peterson . 2011. b.a., carroll college; ph.d., university of southern california. (organic chemistry.) assistant professors carlos lafourcade . 2023. licenciate degree and ph.d., university of buenos aires. (epilepsy, stress, cannabinoids.) jared millson . 2021. b.a., boston university; ph.d., emory university. (philosophy of cognitive sciences.) tanushree pandit . 2019. b.s., m.s., rtm nagpur university; ph.d., umea university. (developmental neuroscience.)programs of study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53 165 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 pm laura shannahan . 2022. b.s., university of wisconsin at madison; ph.d., northwestern university. (cognitive neuroscience, sleep, sensory systems.) printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/neuroscience/neuroscience- program-committee requirements for a major in neuroscience leading to the b.s. degree a total of fifty-four to fifty-eight (54-58) credits as follows: 1. seven (7) core requirements (28 credits total): 1. chem 120&125l (foundations of chemistry & lab) 2. biol 130&131l (biology i & lab) 3. biol 140&141l (biology ii & lab) 4. psyc 150 (introduction to psychological science) 5. psyc 211 or math 211 (statistical methods in psychology or applied statistics for the natural sciences) 6. neur 270 (neuroscience) 7. neur 485 or 486 (senior seminar) 2. two (2) depth requirements (10 credits total): 1. biol 375&375l or biol 376&376l or biol 377&377l (neuroendocrinology & lab or molecular and cellular neuroscience & lab or developmental neuroscience & lab) 2. neur/psyc 344&344l or neur/psyc 345&345l (neuroscience of sleep & lab or cognitive neuroscience & lab) 3. neur 300 (topics in neuroscience with lab) 3. two (2) breadth courses from the following (8-10 credits total): 1. chem 411&411l (medicinal/computational chemistry & lab - independent project must be neuroscience based to count toward major)programs of study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53 166 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 pm 2. neur 299 topics in neuroscience 3. neur/psyc 318 (clinical neuroscience) 4. neur 451-452 (research in neuroscience; 4 credits required) 5. phil 219 (foundations of artificial intelligence) 6. phil 312 (philosophy of the cognitive sciences) 7. psyc 216 (perception) 8. psyc 327 (cognitive processes) 9. a third depth course 4. two (2) electives from the following list (8-10 credits total): 1. biol 204&204l (animal development & lab) 2. biol 207&207l (animal behavior & lab) 3. biol 303 or 304&304l (genetics or genetics & lab) 4. biol 307 (cell biology) 5. biol 325&325l (molecular biology & lab) 6. biol 340&340l (animal physiology & lab) 7. chem 315 (biochemistry) 8. chem 416 (pharmacology) 9. comp 141 or 142 (computer science i or ii) 10. scientific research 451-452 (in a major outside of neuroscience, as approved by the neuroscience committee; 4 credits required) 11. psyc 218 (psychology of addiction) 12. psyc 220 (psychology of health) 13. psyc 224 (psychological disorders) 14. psyc 231 (psychology of aging)programs of study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53 167 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 pm 15. psyc 306 (psycholinguistics) 16. up to two additional depth or breadth courses 5. courses recommended but not required: 1. chem 211-212 & 212l (organic chemistry i and organic chemistry ii & lab) 2. math 115 (applied calculus) 3. math 212 (applied regression) 4. math 330 (biostatistics) 5. phys 109-110 & lab or 111-112 & lab (physics for the life sciences & labs or physics for the physical sciences & labs) printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/neuroscience/requirements- major-neuroscience-leading-bs-degree philosophy courses in the department of philosophy explore life’s most interesting and fundamental questions: what does it mean to be human? to be a person? who am i and how should i live? does life have meaning? does god exist? what does it mean to be free? what are our duties to others? what principles should govern our social and political life? what is the difference between belief and knowledge? why are we prone to thinking and reasoning poorly? our courses explore questions like these through the study of ethics, law, logical thinking, metaphysics, epistemology, political philosophy, and various controversies associated with race, gender, religion, politics, economics, science, technology and artificial intelligence. we seek truth by asking questions, answering the questions, and questioning the answers, always with respect for the views and arguments of others. philosophy courses will sharpen a student’s analytical reading, thinking, and writing, all of which are indispensable skills prized by graduate schools, law schools, and employers. printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/philosophy philosophy: faculty and staff professors daniel cullen. 1988. m.a. dalhousie university. ph.d. boston college: political and moral philosophy, philosophy of law, ppe (philosophy, politics and economics),programs of study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53 168 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 pm contemporary political theory stephen wirls . 1994. b.a. kenyon college; ph.d. cornell university: modern political thought, philosophy and religion, existentialism, ppe (philosophy, politics and economics) associate professors erin dolgoy . 2013. h.b.a. university of toronto; m.a. university of alberta; m.a. and ph.d. michigan state university. (history of political thought, science and technology policy, united states politics) rebecca tuvel . chair. 2014. b.a. mcgill university. ph.d. vanderbilt university. (philosophy of race, sex, and gender, feminist philosophy, ethics, bioethics, animal ethics). website: rebeccatuvel.com assistant professors jared millson. 2021. b.a. boston university; ph.d. emory university: epistemology, logic, philosophy of language, philosophy of science, philosophy of mind. website: jamillson.com staff christie arnold, departmental assistant. printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/philosophy/philosophy-faculty- and-staff requirements for a major in philosophy a total of forty-four (44) credits as follows: 1. philosophy 200 (critical reasoning), philosophy 222 (ethics), senior seminar 486 2. at least one course from each of the following categories: a. knowledge and reasoning: logic (310), epistemology (319) b. social philosophy: philosophy of race and racism (220), justice, equality, and liberty (225), feminist philosophy (355), c. history of philosophy:programs of study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53 169 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 pm ancient philosophy (201), modern political philosophy (345) 3. electives: five additional courses, only two of which can be at the 100-level and two of which must be at the 300-400 level. see "courses of instruction" for titles and descriptions of all philosophy courses. humanities 201( philosophy track) may be counted as one of those courses. printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/philosophy/requirements-major- philosophy requirements for a minor in philosophy a total of twenty (20) credits as follows: 1. philosophy 200 (critical reasoning) 2. one 300-level course or above 3. three additional courses at any level (no more than one 100 level course can count toward the minor). humanities 201 (philosophy track) may be counted as one of those courses. printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/philosophy/requirements-minor- philosophy honors in philosophy 1. courses required: fulfillment of the requirements for a major in philosophy. 2. honors course: philosophy 399 3. examination: an oral examination on the honors essay and related field is required. 4. approval of the honors project by the philosophy department honors committee is required. printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/philosophy/honors-philosophy philosophy, politics and economics the interdisciplinary philosophy, politics and economics program reflects the intersection and cross-fertilization of three historically connected and deeply intertwined intellectualprograms of study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53 170 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 pm disciplines: philosophy, politics and economics. the purpose of this program is to involve students in a direct and sustained study of the complex of moral and practical considerations, quandaries, and disputes that arise at the intersection of these disciplines. the program and the associated major study the many ways that politics, moral principles, and economics interact in the formation of policy choices and resulting outcomes. the impact of political and economic choices on the prosperity and well-being of citizens, particularly distributional consequences, remains critical in every society. printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/philosophy-politics-and- economics philosophy, politics and economics: program committee shameel ahmad , department of economics stephen ceccoli , department of international studies courtney collins , department of economics daniel cullen , department of philosophy rebecca tuvel , department of philosophy stephen wirls , department of philosophy, chair printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/philosophy-politics-and- economics/philosophy-politics-and-economics-program requirements for a major in philosophy, politics and economics a total of 12 courses (48 credits) as follows: 1. philosophy, politics and economics 110 (or philosophy 110, same course cross- listed), 486. 2. economics 100 and 323; economics 201 or 202. 3. international studies 310 or 311. 4. philosophy 225, 345. 5. one methods course from: economics 290, international studies 270, politics and law 270 6. elective courses (12 credits), choosing from:programs of study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53 171 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 pm ◦ economics 201 or 202 (in addition to course taken in #2 above), 308, 310, 312, 338, 339, 343, 407 as well as the following two-credit courses: econ 311, 318, 319 ◦ international studies 310 or 311 (in addition to course taken in #3 above), 263, 452 ◦ philosophy 216, 220, 221, 222, 230, 301, 322 ◦ politics and law 205, 380 (with permission of the program director) ◦ research methods course (in addition to the course taken in #5 above): econ 290, ints 270, plaw 270 printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/philosophy-politics-and- economics/requirements-major-philosophy-politics-and physics all prospective physics majors should consult with a facutly member in the department as early as possible. prospective physics majors should try to take physics 111-112 and its associated laboratory in their first year, along with mathematics 112 (if needed) and mathematics 122 (integral calculus). physics 101, 105, and 107 may not be used for credit towards a major or minor in physics, but they may be used for general degree credits. students planning to pursue graduate study in engineering are strongly encouraged to earn the pre-engineering certificate . students planning to pursue a dual degree program in engineering should consult with the faculty member who serves as the pre-engineering advisor (dr. ann viano, department of physics) as early as possible after beginning coursework at rhodes. printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/physics honors in physics 1. courses required: those listed for the b.s. degree with a major in physics, plus physics 495-496, honors tutorial. at least four credits per semester in the senior year must be earned in honors tutorial courses. up to eight additional credits of tutorial or related course work may be counted, resulting in a maximum of sixteen credits of honors in the senior year.programs of study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53 172 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 pm 2. to be eligible for the honors program a student must have a minimum cumulative grade point average and a major grade point average of 3.50 at the time of application for honors. the student must graduate with a cumulative grade point average and a major grade point average of 3.50 in order to receive the honors designation at commencement. 3. an original investigation in some area of physics is required. honors research may be conducted outside of the department with department approval and the careful guidance of a physics faculty member at rhodes. 4. a thesis must be presented at the end of the project. an oral presentation of the final project is also expected. the honors project and thesis must be approved by the student’s honors committee and the project must follow the department and college guidelines and schedule for honors work. printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/physics/honors-physics physics: faculty and staff professors brent k. hoffmeister . 1996. b.a., wabash college; ph.d., washington university. (ultrasonics, medical physics.) shubho banerjee . 2002. m.s., indian institute of technology, kanpur; ph.d., carnegie mellon university. (electrostatics, thermodynamics, theoretical physics.) associate professors ann m. viano . 1999. chair. b.s., santa clara university; ph.d., washington university. (materials science, solid-state physics, medical imaging, biophysics.) david s. n. rupke . 2010. b.s., calvin college; ph.d., university of maryland. (observational and extragalactic astronomy.) assistant professor gregory b. vieira . 2019. b.s., university of maryland; ph.d., the ohio state university. (magnetic materials and devices.) instructional support specialist victor o. obadina (lanre) . 2013. b.s., fisk university; m.s., alabama a&m university. engineering technologist programs of study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53 173 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 pm stewart white . 2022. b.s., california state university; a.a.s., southwest tennessee community college; m.s., christian brothers university. administrative assistant kate collier . 2022. b.a., concord university; m.p.a., university of memphis; m.a., christian brothers university. printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/physics/physics-faculty-and-staff requirements for a major in physics leading to the b.s. degree a total of fifty-one (51) credits as follows: 1. physics 111-112 (or 109-110 with departmental approval), 113-114. 2. physics 211 and 213. 3. physics 250. 4. physics 301, 305, 401, and 406. 5. physics 486. 6. at least 4 additional physics credits at the 200-level or above. 7. at least 4 additional physics credits at the 300-level or above. 8. mathematics 122 and 223. mathematics 112/113 (precalculus and differential calculus) should be taken by those who have not had a differential calculus course in high school or elsewhere before taking mathematics 122 (integral calculus). mathematics 122 (integral calculus) is a prerequisite for physics 211. mathematics 223 (multivariable calculus) is a prerequisite for physics 250. all math requirements for the major should be completed by the middle of the second year. students planning to pursue graduate study in physics are strongly encouraged to take as many upper-level elective physics courses as possible. other recommended courses include mathematics 251 (differential equations), 261 (linear algebra), 311 (probabilityprograms of study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53 174 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 pm theory), 312 (mathematical statistics), 324 (vector and advanced calculus), 370 (complex variables). computer science 141 (programming fundamentals) and 142 (object-oriented programming) also are recommended. students planning to pursue graduate study in engineering are strongly encouraged to earn the pre-engineering certificate . students planning to pursue a dual degree program in engineering should consult with the faculty member who serves as the pre-engineering advisor as early as possible after beginning coursework at rhodes. physics majors are encouraged to consider study abroad opportunities, and should consult with their academic advisor about suitable options. printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/physics/requirements-major- physics-leading-bs-degree major essay when declaring a major in physics, students must submit an essay to their academic advisor for approval. this essay should be 250 - 500 words and should include: 1. a statement of your goals in pursuing a physics major; 2. areas of physics that represent your greatest interests (e.g., astrophysics); 3. a brief description of other academic concentrations you are planning (e.g., a minor in mathematics) and how those areas complement your interests in physics; 4. a description of your plans after graduation. printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/physics/requirements-major- physics-leading-bs-degree/major-essay requirements for a minor in physics a total of twenty (20) credits as follows: 1. physics 111-112 (or 109-110 with departmental approval) and physics 113-114. 2. physics 211. 3. at least one additional 4-credit physics course at the 200-level or above. 4. mathematics 122. programs of study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53 175 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 pm mathematics 112/113 (precalculus and differential calculus) should be taken by any student who has not had a course in differential calculus in high school or elsewhere. mathematics 223 (multivariable calculus) is recommended, but not required, and is a prerequisite for many upper-level physics courses. note: the college requires that at least four of the courses in the minor be outside the requirements of the student's major or majors and any other minors. students majoring in chemistry or mathematics who intend to minor in physics should be especially mindful of this requirement. printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/physics/requirements-minor- physics requirements for a pre-engineering certificate physics or chemistry majors planning for graduate work and/or careers in engineering can earn a pre-engineering certificate from rhodes by completing the following listed courses. for physics majors interested in mechanical or electrical engineering: 1. physics 111-112* 2. mathematics 251, computer science 141, chemistry 120/125l 3. physics 220* 4. physics 304 or 307* 5. one approved experiential component, such as: 4 credits of research*, summer research or engineering-related internship for physics majors interested in biomedical engineering: 1. physics111-112* 2. mathematics 251, computer science 141, chemistry 120/125l 3. chemistry 211 or 240 (with instructor permission) or 2nd semester of general chemistry taken elsewhere 4. biology 130/131l and 140,141lprograms of study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53 176 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 pm 5. one approved experiential component, such as: 4 credits of research*, summer research or engineering-related internship 6. physics 220 is recommended but not required* for chemistry majors interested in chemical engineering: 1. physics 111-112* and 220. 2. physics 304 or 307. 3. mathematics 223 and 251. 4. computer science 141. 5. one approved experiential component, such as: 4 credits of research*, summer research or an engineering-related internship. *also fulfills major requirements note: students interested in pursuing engineering work immediately after college may wish to consider the dual degree options through the academic partnerships for engineering at rhodes. https://catalog.rhodes.edu/educational-program/academic-partnerships printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/physics/requirements-pre- engineering-certificate politics and law the politics and law department offers a political science major that prepares students to address fundamental questions of equality, liberty, and justice; the history of political philosophy; the constitutional structure of government in the u.s., and the major institutions of national politics, urban politics, and public policy. printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/politics-and-law for students considering a career in lawprograms of study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53 177 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 pm the politics and law department's political science major is especially good for those interested in a career in law. the american bar association identifies a set of skills and bodies of knowledge that students considering a career in law should develop through their undergraduate education, and the political science major concentrates on all of these to a very high degree. these core skills and values include "analytic and problem- solving skills," "critical reading abilities," "writing skills," "oral communication and listening abilities," and "general research skills," among others.* the political science major curriculum will involve you repeatedly in academic work that hones each of these, and covers areas of knowledge the aba considers important preparation for law school: a comprehension of the contemporary american political and legal systems; political development of the united states; the fundamental principles of political thought; a basic understanding of human behavior and social interaction; and the ability to organize, manage, and analyze data in the process of conducting research. law-related internships or co-curricular activities may also be appropriate. *www.americanbar.org/groups/legal_education/resources/pre_law printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/politics-and-law/students- considering-career-law honors in politics and law honors work in the politics and law department affords an opportunity for political science majors to investigate topics of their own choosing. in the process, they will be expanding and honing their research and writing skills, which is excellent preparation for graduate and professional degree work. majors pursuing honors will devote a substantial portion of their last two semesters at rhodes to their projects (honors work earns eight- twelve credits across two semesters). to be eligible, a student must have completed 28 credits of course work in the major and have a grade point average of 3.5 or higher in the college and in politics and law courses. honors guidelines are available from the chairperson of the department. printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/politics-and-law/honors-politics- and-law politics and law: faculty and staff professors michael nelson . 1991. fulmer professor of political science. b.a., college of william and mary; m.a. and ph.d., the johns hopkins university. (american presidency; southernprograms of study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53 178 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 pm politics; american politics.) marcus d. pohlmann . emeritus 1986. b.a., cornell college; m.a., m.phil. and ph.d., columbia university. (american politics; legal studies; education policy, black political thought.) associate professors erin a. dolgoy . 2013. m.a. and ph.d., michigan state university. (political theory, science and technology studies, american politics.) assistant professors anna s. eldridge . 2012. b.a., rhodes college; j.d., duke university. (legal studies, internships, pre-law advising.) thomas goodman . 2021. b.s., northeastern university; m.a. boston college; ph.d. boston college (american politics, congress, campaigns and elections) kyu chul (casey) shin . 2021. b.a., ursinus college; ph.d., west virginia university (american politics, race and ethnic studies, public policy, global affairs) director of mock trial anna r. smith . 2012. b.a., rhodes college; j.d. duke university. (legal studies; internships.) staff hannah guess. 2020. departmental assistant. b.a. and m.a., university of memphis. printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/politics-and-law/politics-and-law- faculty-and-staff requirements for a major in political science with concentration in politics and law the department of politics and law offers students an opportunity to undertake an intensive study of the constitution, law, and judicial branch of government, in the politics and law concentration. all students who decide to concentrate in politics and law must do a public affairs internship focused on jurisprudence. a total of forty-four (44) credits as follows:programs of study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53 179 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 pm 1. plaw 151: u. s. politics. 2. plaw 270: research methods. 3. plaw 485: senior seminar. 4. one course in political thought and philosophy. 5. international studies 110 or international studies 120. 6. plaw 460: public affairs internship with a law concentration. 7. five additional courses (20 credits) in political and law, two of which must be at the 300 level. students may count up to two international studies courses towards their major. in satisfying the requirements above, the politics and law concentration requires students to take any two of the following courses: plaw 216: philosophy of law; plaw 262: trial procedure; plaw 264: rights of the accused; plaw 280: judicial politics; plaw 283: topics in public law; and plaw 301: civil liberties. students may petition the chair to count one non-politics and law course that focuses on the study of jurisprudence as a substitute for one of the aforementioned courses. plaw 263 does not count toward a political science major. printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/politics-and-law/requirements- major-political-science-concentration-politics-and-law requirements for a political science major a total of forty-four (44) credits as follows: 1. plaw 151: u. s. politics. 2. plaw 270: research methods. 3. plaw 485: senior seminar. 4. one course in political thought and philosophy. 5. international studies 110 or international studies 120. 6. six additional courses (24 credits) in political and law, two of which must be at the 300 level. students may count up to two international studies courses towards theirprograms of study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53 180 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 pm major. plaw 460, public affairs internship, may count as a major elective at the 200 level. plaw 263 does not count toward a political science major. printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/politics-and-law/requirements- political-science-major requirements for a political science minor a total of five courses or twenty (20) credits as follows: 1. plaw 151: u. s. politics. 2. two courses at the 200-level. humanities 201 (politics track) may count for a 200 level course. 3. two courses at the 300-level or above. plaw 460, public affairs internship, does not count as a course for the political science minor. plaw 262 and 263 do not count toward a political science minor. printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/politics-and-law/requirements- political-science-minor the washington semester and the capitol semester politics and law students may participate in two different semester long programs in washington, d.c., each involving courses, an internship, and a research project. since special financial arrangements are required for these programs, students need to meet with the director of the buckman center. these programs can be done in the fall or the spring semester. two of the four courses transferred from the washington semester may satisfy requirements for a political science major, and all four of the courses transferred from the capitol semester may satisfy requirements for a political science major. since some coursework transfers as internship credit, students receiving credit from either of these programs cannot count an additional plaw 460 course toward the political science major. printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/politics-and-law/washington- semester-and-capitol-semesterprograms of study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53 181 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 pm post-baccalaureate certificate in health equity the certificate in health equity is designed to prepare students to become skilled and compassionate healthcare providers, public health professionals, and policy advocates who understand how social determinants shape health status and who are committed to working in solidarity with and to advocating for stigmatized and underserved populations. program participants will • understand how unjust social conditions cause illness and disease for stigmatized populations • be able to identify and intervene in their own practice and with colleagues when bias leads to unequal care • learn to practice equity-oriented, person-centered care that helps individuals seeking clinical services feel valued and welcomed • learn how policy affects health and how to be an effective advocate for better policies printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/post-baccalaureate-certificate- health-equity requirements for the post-baccalaureate certificate in health equity a total of sixteen (16) credits as follows: 1. hleq 510 or hleq 410 health equity and disparities 2. hleq 515 or hleq 415 intercultural communication for health and healthcare 3. one of the following: hleq 520 or hleq 420 developing cultural humility, hleq 530 health humanities and social inequality, hleq 430 narrative medicine and inequality 4. hleq 540 or hleq 440 politics of health and healthcare policy 5. the program chair may approve substitutions, including the following: 1. hleq 445 research methods in health disparities 2. hleq 435 global health local practice 3. hleq 325 healthcare ethics and social inequalityprograms of study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53 182 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 pm 4. hleq 210 introduction to health equity 5. phil 303 medical ethics 6. psyc 220 psychology of health 7. anso 347 medical sociology 8. afs 350 race thinking and health disparities 9. urbn 340 justice in the city 10. urbn 460 internship 11. urbn 451 research practicum 12. urbn 452 research practicum printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/post-baccalaureate-certificate- health-equity/requirements-post-baccalaureate psychology the department of psychology helps students develop an understanding of human behavior and experience a variety of theoretical perspectives. the faculty specialize in a wide variety of topics, including neuroscience, clinical/counseling, cognitive, social, developmental, and educational psychology. printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/psychology honors in psychology members of the faculty of the department of psychology encourage students of exceptional academic accomplishment to pursue research with a departmental faculty sponsor that is of an in-depth, rigorous nature; this work will introduce the student to the quality of research one would normally experience in a graduate program. because the level of involvement of the student and their faculty sponsor will be greater in honors research than that in either a tutorial or directed inquiry, the faculty of the department of psychology have established rules for student admission into the departmental honors program. please contact the department chair for a copy of the honors researchprograms of study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53 183 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 pm guidelines. it is recommended that students interested in pursuing department honors enroll in junior seminar 399. printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/psychology/honors-psychology major essay when declaring a major in psychology, students must submit an essay in which they articulate their educational goals. the essay should be four paragraphs, with one paragraph dedicated to each of the questions below (question 3 has two parts.) 1. in your opinion, what are the defining characteristics of the discipline of psychology? 2. how do the requirements for the psychology major complement your program of liberal arts study and support your career or life goals? 3. as a psychology major, how will you (a) build on your strengths and (b) address your weaknesses? the entire essay should be between 250 and 1000 words and must accompany the declaration of major form when a student has the initial meeting with their major advisor. a student may choose to revise the essay after meeting with the advisor. students will electronically submit the final, advisor approved, version of the essay as a word document to the psychology departmental assistant so that it can be archived. the file name for the essay should be as follows: student’s last name, student’s first name, and graduation year. printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/psychology/major-essay psychology: faculty and staff professors natalie person . 1994. b.a., university of mississippi; ph.d., university of memphis. (cognitive; learning technologies; educational psychology.) elizabeth thomas . 2011. b.a., georgetown university, ph.d., university of illinois at urbana-champaign. (urban studies; community psychology; psychology and the arts.) katherine white . 2009. b.a., rhodes college; ph.d., university of florida. (cognitive; language and memory; cognitive aging.)programs of study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53 184 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 pm associate professors jason haberman . 2014. b.a., university of miami; m.a. and ph.d., university of california - davis. (neuroscience: visual psychophysics; object recognition, ensemble perception.) kiren khan . 2017. a.b., university of pennsylvania; ph.d., the pennsylvania state university. (developmental psychology; narrative development in young children.) rebecca klatzkin . 2011. b.s., university of richmond; ph.d., university of north carolina, chapel hill. (behavioral neuroscience: stress; eating behavior; binge eating disorder.) geoffrey maddox . 2013. b.a., university of missouri; m.a., ph.d., washington university in st. louis. (cognitive: aging and development.) matthew weeks . 2001. b.a., kentucky wesleyan college; ph.d., university of memphis. (social; social cognition; stereotyping.) assistant professors amanda hasselle. 2021. b.a., trinity university; m.s., phd., university of memphis. (clinical: child and family studies) katherine (kailey) lawson . 2022. b.a., pomona college; m.a., ph.d., university of california - davis (social-personality: nature, development, and assessment of personality traits) laura shanahan . 2022. b.s., university of wisconsin, madison; ph.d., northwestern university. (neuroscience: cognitive neuroscience, sleep, sensory systems). staff anjeanette tiamiyu . departmental assistant. printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/psychology/psychology-faculty- and-staff requirements for a major in psychology a total of 11 courses or forty-four (44) credits in the major as follows: 1. psychology 150 to be taken as early as possible in the student’s course of study.programs of study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53 185 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 pm 2. psychology 200 and 211 should be taken as early as possible. ideally they should be completed by the spring semester of the sophomore year. 3. at least one course from each of the following five content domains (at least three of these courses must be core courses (bolded) from separate domains). * each course can only count in one content domain: 1. developmental across the lifespan: psychology 222, 229, 230, 231, 306*. 2. cognition and learning: psychology 216*, 306*, 327, 345/345l. 3. biological bases of behavior: psychology 216*, 317* or 318*, 344/344l; neuroscience 270. 4. sociocultural bases of behavior and experience: psychology 232, 240, 280, 323, 330. 5. health and well-being: 218, 220, 224, 311, 324, 317* or 318*, 338. 4. one course should be a 300-level course from one of the content domains. 5. one advanced methods course from among psychology 350 – 353 that should be taken junior year. before taking a particular advanced methods course, students should complete psyc 200 and 211, as well as the core course that relates to it. 6. one community-based or independent investigation course: psychology 229 (some sections), 231, 330, 451, 452, 460, 495, or 496; education 360 or 460. 7. one other course in psychology (only one 105 course may count) or one of the following: educ 222, urbn 250, mus 145. 8. psychology 485 to be taken during the senior year. printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/psychology/requirements-major- psychology requirements for a minor in psychology a total of 6 courses or twenty-four (24) credits as follows: 1. psychology 150.programs of study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53 186 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 pm 2. psychology 200. 3. four additional psychology courses (or neuroscience 270) to be chosen in consultation with a departmental advisor and to be approved by the department chair. these will be selected to coordinate with the student’s major and career aspirations, and will normally include at least one 300- or 400-level course. only one 105 course may count. printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/psychology/requirements-minor- psychology religious studies the department of religious studies promotes the academic study of religion by offering courses that explore the diverse aspects of religious traditions. particular emphasis is given to the origins, history, and relevance of religion in contemporary life. printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/religious-studies honors in religious studies honors research in religious studies is established by consultation between the student and the department. in addition to the courses required for a major, the honors program requires the one-hour junior honors tutorial, religious studies 399, and the senior honors tutorials, religious studies 495-496, in which the student will be guided in the research and writing of an honors paper. printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/religious-studies/honors-religious- studies religious studies: faculty and staff professors patrick gray . 2002. the albert bruce curry professor of religious studies. b.a., oglethorpe university; m.t.s., ph.d., emory university. (new testament; history of biblical interpretation; greco-roman moral philosophy) stephen r. haynes . 1989. b.a., vanderbilt university; m.a., florida state university;programs of study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53 187 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 pm m.div., columbia theological seminary; ph.d., emory university. (holocaust studies; religion and politics; religion and literature; religion and education) steven l. mckenzie . 1983. the spence l. wilson senior research fellow. b.a., m.div., abilene christian university; th.d., harvard university. (old testament; hebrew) associate professors thomas bremer . 2001. b.a., the ohio state university; m.a., ph.d., princeton university. (history of religion in america) john c. kaltner . chair. 1996. the virginia ballou mcgehee professor of muslim-christian relations. b.a., state university of new york at oswego; m.a., maryknoll school of theology; s.s.l., pontifical biblical institute; ph.d., drew university. (biblical studies; islam) bernadette mcnary-zak . 1999. b.a., university of rochester; m.a., catholic university of america; ph.d., university of toronto. (early christianity) sarah e. rollens. 2015. the r. a. webb professor of religious studies. b.a., university of north carolina at wilmington; m.a., university of alberta; ph.d., university of toronto (new testament; early christianity) brooke schedneck. 2017. the w. j. millard professor of religious studies. b.a., boston university; m.t.s. harvard university; ph.d., arizona state university. (asian religions.) assistant professors raissa von doetinchem de rande. 2020. m.a., university of oxford; m.a.r., yale university; m.a., princeton university; ph.d., princeton university. (islamic studies; ethics.) beck henricksen . 2023. b.s., b.a., biola university; m.a. yale divinity school; m.a., brown university; ph.d., university of north carolina at chapel hill. (gender and sexuality studies; africana studies) shatavia l. wynn . 2022. b.a., claflin university; m.a., yale university divinity school; ph.d., vanderbilt university. (african american religion; africana studies)programs of study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53 188 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 pm part-time faculty micah d. greenstein. 2020. b.a., cornell university; m.p.a., harvard university; rabbinic ordination, m.a.h.l., d.d., hebrew union college-jewish institute of religion. (judaism) jonathan c. lewis. 2021. b.a., university of georgia; m.div., duke divinity school; d.min., memphis theological seminary. (religious studies; speech communications; pastoral care and counseling; narrative medicine) staff christie arnold , departmental assistant. printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/religious-studies/religious- studies-faculty-and-staff requirements for a major in religious studies a total of thirty-six (36) credits as follows: 1. religious studies 255, 256; one of the following: 251, 253 or 258. 2. one 200-level course in bible (260, 270-277, 280-286). 3. one 200-level course in theology and ethics (211, 220, 232, 233). the religion track of hum 201 can count toward this requirement. 4. three 300-level courses. (religious studies 399, the junior honors tutorial, does not count towards fulfilling this requirement.) 5. religious studies 485 (religious studies 256 and at least one 300-level course must be completed prior to taking religious studies 485.) note: the health equity internships (religious studies 460) may count toward fulfilling the third requirement for the religious studies major. printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/religious-studies/requirements- major-religious-studies requirements for a minor in religious studiesprograms of study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53 189 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 pm a total of twenty (20) credits as follows: 1. religious studies 101 and 102 or humanities 101 and 102. 2. two 200-level courses in different areas of religious studies (biblical studies, theology and ethics, history of religions). certain courses (e.g., humanities 201 or ams 250) can fulfill this requirement when cross-listed as religious studies courses. 3. one 300-level religious studies seminar in any area. note: the health equity internships (religious studies 460) may count toward fulfilling the second requirement for the religious studies minor. printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/religious-studies/requirements- minor-religious-studies reserve officer training programs rhodes, in cooperation with the university of memphis and the departments of the army, navy, and air force, participates in crosstown agreements that provide the opportunity for rhodes students to enroll in aerospace studies (air force rotc), military science (army rotc), and naval science (navy rotc) at the university of memphis. upon successful completion of the reserve officer training programs and the undergraduate degree at rhodes, a student receives a commission as a second lieutenant in the appropriate military service. the curriculum for the rotc program is reviewed by the faculty of rhodes and the appropriate credits are assigned. the student who participates in the rotc programs will have to complete all requirements as specified by the military service departments, including summer training camps, if the commission as an officer is to be granted. a rhodes student may earn a maximum of sixteen credits in the rotc programs and apply fourteen of these credits to the 128 credits needed for a rhodes degree. credit earned in rotc is counted as elective credit, and it is listed on the student’s transcript as rotc credit with the appropriate course titles. to be eligible to participate in the consortium, students must enroll in at least twelve (12) hours per semester at rhodes to be considered full time. credits enrolled in during a given semester are included in the count of credits for a normal course load. (the credit shown below applies to the 16-credit provision.) although a student takes the rotc courses at the university of memphis, that student is a full-time student at rhodes, and any financial assistance provided by the military services is based on tuition and fees at rhodes. aerospace studiesprograms of study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53 190 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 pm the aerospace studies program is in two parts. the first-year/sophomore-level program, the general military course, is open to all students. the junior/senior level program, the professional officer course, is available only to selected, eligible students who desire to earn commissions as officers in the united states air force while pursuing their academic studies at rhodes. participants in the poc program and those in the gmc on afrotc scholarships receive a monthly subsistence allowance from the air force. graduate students who qualify are also eligible for poc enrollment. air force rotc scholarships which pay all or a portion of certain college costs (tuition, book allowance, and certain fees) are available on a competitive basis, to entering first- year students and to cadets participating in the afrotc program. details are available from the office of admissions and financial aid or from the department of aerospace studies at the university of memphis. students wishing to participate should contact the unit admissions officer, afrotc detachment 785, department of aerospace studies, university of memphis, at 678-2681. students may also access afrotc detachment 785’s website at www.afrotc.memphis.edu and/or the afrotc website at www.afrotc.com. military science the military science program provides a four year course of military instruction designed to provide qualified students with the attributes and competencies in the art of us army leadership, the program is divided into two sections each consisting of a two year duration. the first, called the basic course, offers an introduction to the us army, basic soldier skills, roles and responsibilities, offership, and military doctrine. the second, called the advanced course, expands upon the basic course and offers leadership experience, advanced military doctrine, and prepares the student for commissioning as a us army officer. students may apply for the four year program, basic course, or advanced course. department faculty and staff are active duty army personnel detailed by the department of the army and approved by the university of memphis president. the army officers are appointed by the university of memphis as professor or assistant professor of military science. students interested in enrolling in any military science course should contact the department of military science recruiting operations officer at (901)678-2934. printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/reserve-officer-training-programs rhodes study abroad and away programs about 65 percent of rhodes students take advantage of learning opportunities off-campus and in other countries, most often during their sophomore and junior years. and whileprograms of study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53 191 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 pm language and culture are common subjects of study, specialized programs abound and help students develop real-world skills in their discipline. in most cases, students pay tuition, room, and board as normal to rhodes, including any federal and institutional aid they normally receive, which covers their tuition, room, and board while on the program. how to get started the buckman center for international education manages the off-campus and study abroad component for rhodes college. to get started, explore the online portal for off- campus study , which helps you plan ahead, search for you programs, and apply for programs. types of programs rhodes summer programs - every year, rhodes faculty plan programs off-campus for rhodes students. these are commonly referred to as rhodes “maymesters.” the online portal has a list of current programs. as these are rhodes programs, credit earned is rhodes credit. no institutional or federal aid is portable for summer programs. however, the buckman center has many need-based scholarships available. rhodes semester programs - rhodes, sewanee, and centre college jointly own/operate three semester-long off-campus study programs: the "new york city internship program" (nyc, usa), the "global ghana: history and the diaspora program" (accra, ghana), and the "global environmental challenges program" (cuenca, ecuador). these programs are rhodes programs, meaning that all credit earned is rhodes credit and rhodes' portable institutional and federal aid applies. students from all three schools will enroll in these programs and the faculty leaders are drawn from each of the schools on a rotating basis. these programs operate in the fall, only. isep and bilateral exchanges – rhodes students have access to exchange programs worldwide. our formal bilateral exchange agreements are with the university of antwerp, belgium; the university of poitiers, france; nebrissensis university, madrid, spain; the university of tübingen, germany; the university of koblenz-landau, germany; the university of aberdeen, scotland; the university of kent, england; the university of lima, peru; rhodes university, grahamstown, south africa; and the iberoamericana university in puebla, mexico. students pay tuition (in some case, room and board) to rhodes and receive tuition (in some cases, room and board) on the program. rhodes institutional aid and federal/state aid are portable for these programs. exchanges can occur in any discipline and can range in length from one semester to one academic year. in most cases, exchange students are matriculated directly into the host institution and pursue courses with host country students. credit earned on exchange programs is treated as transfer credit. the number of students who can participate on exchange programs is limited.programs of study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53 192 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 pm rhodes is also a member of isep (the international student exchange program), an organization of more than 200 colleges and universities located throughout the united states and in africa, asia, australia, canada, europe and latin america. students pay tuition, room, and board to rhodes and receive tuition, room and board on the program. rhodes institutional aid and federal/state aid are portable for these programs. exchanges can occur in any discipline and can range in length from one semester to one academic year. in most cases, exchange students are matriculated directly into the host institution and pursue courses with host country students. credit earned on exchange programs is treated as transfer credit. the number of students who can participate on exchange programs is limited. affiliated programs - in addition to rhodes programs and exchange programs, rhodes has semester- and year-long affiliated partnerships with numerous other colleges, universities and international organizations. students participating on an affiliated program pay tuition, room, and board (in some cases, partial or no board) to rhodes and receive tuition, room and board (or partial or no board) on the off-campus program. rhodes institutional aid and federal/state aid are portable for these programs. credit earned on affiliated programs is treated as transfer credit. in the case of an affiliated summer program, students pay the program out of pocket; no institutional or federal aid is portable for summer programs. however, the buckman center has need-based scholarships available. printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/rhodes-study-abroad-and-away- programs global environmental challenges studnets will spend their semester in the highlands of ecuador, learning about local and global environmental challenges while immersing themselves in the spanish language. the global environmental challenges program explores various environmental issues of today and tomorrow through an integrated lens of science and humanities. the first 12 weeks of the program take place in the highlands of cuenca, ecuador, a unesco world heritage site. students live in a homestay with an ecuadorian family, being fully immersed in a spanish speaking community. no previous spanish language experience is necessary - students will be placed in one spanish class at the appropriate level. an additional three courses (taught in english) complete the semester, centering around the local and global environmental challenges facing this region and how people are meeting them. after the initial 12 weeks of the program, students synthesize what they've learned so far in a final three-week module at two remote, world-class ecological research stations: one week at the tiputini biodiversity station in the amazon river basin and two weeks at theprograms of study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53 193 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 pm galapagos science center on san cristóbal island in the galápagos islands. during this intense module, students will gain hand-on experience in data collection and learn about the specific challenges facing this region of the world. for the entirety of the program, students have the opportunity of a lifetime to will engage in field trips to local communities and organizations to learn more about the environmental issues brought up in class. they will be able to engage with a plethora of environmental issues and reflect on the differences between their own linguistic and cultural backgrounds and those found in their host communities. students from three schools, rhodes, centre, and sewanee, will take part in this unique liberal arts collaboration examining these timely and important questions. the program leader for each fall will be a faculty member from one of these schools. this is a rhodes program and all courses are rhodes courses. the grades will appear on the student's transcript as grades earned and will be factored into the rhodes gpa. f11 will be granted for successful completion of the program. student applications are on the buckman center's website. courses available for fall 2023: • tropical biology: taught by the program leader, dr. michael collins of rhodes college. (envs 108, 4 credits). • linking the local to the global: taught by david siddons, msc, of the universidad de azuay (envs 207, 4 credits). • environment, conservation and policy issues: taught by dr. leo zurita arthos of the universidad san fransisco de quito (usfq). (envs 107, 4 credits). • spanish language per each student's individual level: taught by instructors at cuenca's sampere institute, the site of the rhodes ecuaodor maymester for over 20 years. (spanish language, 4 credits). f10 is granted for successful completion of español 201, b1:1. there are no spanish prerequisites for this program. all students will be placed into a spanish language course at their level. "prerequisite" is understood as the rhodes course listed, the equivalent, or permission of the rhodes director of spanish. course descriptions: tropical biology: this course surveys the diversity of tropical ecosystems and examines the ecological and evolutionary processes that shape them. through lectures, readings, discussions, and guest speakers, the course examines foundational theories and major themes in tropical biology, including species diversity, adaptations and coevolution, community structure, biogeography, and conservation challenges. the course uses ecuador as a model to illustrate general principles and contemporary issues in tropical ecology and conservation. by the end of this course, you’ll be able to a: identify majorprograms of study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53 194 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 pm tropical ecosystems, describe their climatic and biological characteristics, and explain the fundamental reasons tropical systems differ from temperate ones. b: understand the ecological and evolutionary mechanisms that shape patterns of species diversity and explain why there are so many species in the tropics. c: critically examine the assumptions and empirical evidence supporting or rejecting hypotheses that have guided our understanding of tropical ecosystems. d: understand the major threats to tropical ecosystems and how ecological principles can inform conservation efforts. linking the local to the global: this course examines local environmental challenges in cuenca, ecuador and nearby locations. examples of potential topics include, but are not limited to: gold mining and its effects on water quality, eco-agricultural sustainable food production, corn sovereignty (small production vs. large agro-industrial production), and invasive species of flora and fauna (e.g. introduction of trout in cajas). experiential learning will be a significant element of the course and students will regularly visit local communities, ngos, museums, governmental offices, etc. so that students can learn from those who are most affected by these issues. additionally, students will observe local community members’ engagement in political activism, artistic expression, and cultural practices that illustrate their experiences with the environment and their efforts to pursue alternative ways of interfacing with the natural world. while each of the environmental challenges mentioned above is present in and around cuenca, the course explicitly explores links to the broader global context. for example, gold mining has a negative impact on the environment in this region; however, mining has similar effects on various communities around the world, from coal mining in the southeastern united states to cobalt mining in central africa. the course includes discussions around questions such as: how does the practice affect the environment (land, water, air)? what are the reasons for these environmentally damaging practices? how are these practices affecting local and global communities of people? how are the affected communities employing artistic expression to illustrate their experiences? what alternatives have been suggested or implemented? what are the obstacles to achieving solutions? environment, conservation and policy issues: in this course, students will be introduced to the most influential factors shaping the ecosystems and their conservation looking at the global, regional and local factors that determine the climates and the contrasting ecosystems that can be found in ecuador. the course includes several field visits to the the lowlands of the ecuadorian amazon (tiputini biodiversity station) and the galápagos islands, allowing students to experience first-hand current topics of conservation and policy issues, while discussing the main environmental challenges associated with the conservation of natural ecosystems in tropical developing countries. additionally, this course reviews the environmental issues facing contemporary ecuador in the context of a transforming global reality. we look at specific environmental issues that are of concern for ecuador and the region including, the oil industry and indigenous communities in the amazon basin, aquaculture, and shrimp farming, introduced species, large scale ranching and deforestation, fisheries, and the management of fragile marineprograms of study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53 195 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 pm ecosystems such as the galapagos. we investigate possible solutions that consider political and ecological pressures, perspectives of indigenous populations, environmentalists, the governments, ngos, as well as international investors and multinational companies. it all revolves around this little but diverse country. spanish language course: s tudents will enroll in one spanish language course. courses range from introductory spanish 101 through advanced spanish 425. specialized courses at the intermediate and advanced levels include "cultura y civilización latinoamericana," "panorámica de la literatura latinoamericana," and "español para los negocios." printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/rhodes-study-abroad-and-away- programs/global-environmental-challenges global ghana: history and the diaspora studying in accra, ghana will provide students with a life-changing opportunity to live and study in a remarkable, historic city where coursework, homestays, and internships will immerse them in the vibrant and awe-inspiring culture of ghana. the focus of the program is the complex intersections in the past and present between modern ghana and the african diaspora in the southeastern united states. we will answer questions such as: what are the connections between ghana and the us? how do both countries influence each other’s music, food, innovation, and fashion? when did the connections in our politics and economics have their historical beginnings? in this fall semester program, students will discover the historic and contemporary ties connecting western africa to the us diaspora, examining topics ranging from the west african slave trade to the pan- african movement and beyond. students from three schools, rhodes, centre, and sewanee, will take part in this unique liberal arts collaboration examining these intriguing and important questions. the program leader for each fall will be a faculty member from one of these schools. this is a rhodes program and all courses are rhodes courses. the grades will appear on the student's transcript as grades earned and will be factored into the rhodes gpa. f11 will be granted for successful completion of the program. student applications are on the buckman center's website. course credit for fall 2023: students will take four courses, totaling 16 hours. f11 will be granted for satisfactory completion of this program. • international studies 255: globalization and the challenges of development inprograms of study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53 196 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 pm ghana - 4 credits (f9) • music 116: ghanaian popular music - 4 credits (f5) • history 274: ghana and west africa’s pasts in the black atlantic - 4 credits (f3) • international studies 264: africa in world politics: ghanaian perspectives - 4 credits • academic internship - 4 credits course descriptions: globalization and the challenges of development in ghana: taught by dr. akosua darkwah of the university of ghana. (inst 255, 4 credits, f9). this course will include site visits to locations within accra that highlight fashion, food, and gender and entrepreneurship. we will begin with a brief history of markets in ghana as we begin to define "what is globalization?" from various interpretations and meanings of globalisation, we will investigate globalization’s influence on society including cultural implications. we will discuss topics such as transnationalism, agricultural developments, real estate, manufacturing, and even alternatives to globalization. how does globalization interface with social justice movements and women's rights? what part does ghana play in international relations for the local region and continent of africa? we will answer these and other questions as we explore our global ghana. ghanaian popular music: taught by dr. eric doe of the university of ghana. (musc 116, 4 credits, f5). highlife music has emerged as one of the most popular world music genres from west africa in the last century. the music tradition's success on the world stage is closely associated with its trans-atlantic influences and the impact of african traditional and imported western and black diasporic performance norms. the present proliferation and popularization of various musical styles marketed as 'highlife' or ghanaian popular music point to the fact that ghanaian musical expressions draw their musical characteristics from indigenous ghanaian music heritage juxtaposed with ideas borrowed from the west. styles are differentiated according to time, place, and cultural influences concerning embellishment, language choice, vocal timbres, and instrumental resources. this course analyses the musical varieties within genres marketed as ghanaian 'popular' or "highlife" music. it offers broader political, economic, and socio-historical perspectives on various factors rooted in ethnicity, gender, identity, pan-africanism, and generational class relations that have contributed to contemporary understandings of ghanaian ‘popular’ and highlife music. our exploration of highlife will range from the relationships between ghanaian and west african music research to the marketing of highlife music today, from ethnographic approaches to ghanaian performance to the philosophical and ethical considerations involved in studying it. throughout the course, we will consider how ghanaian 'popular' musicians and related groups have created a range of sound worlds under considerable social, political, and commercial pressure. academic internship and weekly seminar:programs of study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53 197 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 pm led by dr. elsie gaisie-ahiabu, an international educator based in accra . an unpaid academic internship would replace course #1 or #2 above. (depends on major and pre- approval from career services is required. 4 credits). students will attend a weekly seminar in addition to 10+ hours of internship each week. students will be placed in internship/service learning assignments at various non-governmental organizations (ngos), healthcare providers, research institutes, and other local agencies, referred to as ‘attachments’ in ghana, that are designed to complement the global health and development emphasis of the program, as well as to meet the individual interest of each student. the actual placement of each student will be based on his/her unique academic background, training, skills, and personal interests. the types of attachments available to students are numerous and include areas as diverse as health; environment; family planning; women’s empowerment; new information and communication technologies; agriculture; education; literacy; culture and arts; tourism; politics; economics and business; mass media, and others. internship duties and responsibilities vary depending on the specific needs of the organization, however, they can include writing, researching, job shadowing, interviewing, advising, teaching, community organizing, mentoring, training, fundraising, photographing, and a variety of other alternatives. the weekly seminar is designed to assist students in working cross-culturally in accra and to gain the fullest benefit from undertaking an international academic internship. students will also be given information about ethics, safety, and professionalism in the context of their internship placements. the seminar may include a site visits, weekend field excursions, and day- long community service projects. the internship carries 4 credits, but the weekly seminar is non-credit bearing. ghana and west africa’s pasts in the black atlantic*: taught by dr. kofi baku of the university of ghana. (hist 274, 4 credits, f3). this course will be coupled with an overnight field trip to the north of the country, the origins for many people who were enslaved and then brought to the ghanaian coast for transport to the americas. student will also visit cape coast, the site for two unesco world heritage sites: the “slave castles” elmina castle and cape coast castle. this course provides an introduction to slavery in ghana and west africa and the atlantic slave trade out of west africa. the course uses ghana as a window to explore the history and material culture of slavery and the atlantic slave trade in west africa. it combines lectures, class discussions, documentaries, and field trips to sites of enslavement, slave markets and resistance to slavery and student analysis of contemporary sources. instead of presenting a comprehensive survey, covering every aspect of this vast subject, this course takes a topical approach by focusing on a selection of themes and issues that are crucial to developing an understanding of slavery in ghana and west africa and the slave trade across the atlantic. themes to be covered include slavery and nation building in west africa, african and european agency in slavery and slave trade; slavery and slave trade in framing the social structure of ghana and west africa; the legacies of slavery in ghana and west africa and the ways in which slavery is remembered in ghana and west africa. throughout the course, we will pay attention to the debilitating effects of slavery and theprograms of study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53 198 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 pm slave trade on west africa and on its development. africa in world politics: ghanaian perspectives*: taught by dr. amy patterson, sewanee. (ints 264, 4 credits). this course examines the challenges, successes, and failures of the continent’s political development, with a particular focus on ghana. it begins by investigating how colonialism and nationalism affected politics, society, and economies. it then examines post-independence governments, democratic transitions, political institutions, and significant political actors. using the ghana case, it questions how ethnicity, gender, and religious identities play into these dynamics, and it questions how ghana has been able to develop a stable democratic system, while many other african countries have experienced authoritarian rule. expanding beyond domestic politics, the course pays particular attention to the ways that the african union, ecowas, and donor nations shape politics in ghana. in the process, it links ghanaian politics and society to diasporic factors and populations. *these two courses are mandatory for all participants. students will select an additional two courses, or an additional course plus academic internship, for a total of 16 credits. printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/rhodes-study-abroad-and-away- programs/global-ghana-history-and-diaspora new york city internship program the new york city internship program takes place in the fall semester in nyc and is composed of one 8-hour internship and two 4-credit classes, for a total of 16 academic credits. students will challenge themselves through an intensive internship and study experience in the vibrant and culturally and linguistically heterogeneous environment of new york city. they will gain meaningful, real-world work experience in new york city, learning experientially in several domains: career readiness and marketability, training in cross- cultural adaptation to one of the largest and busiest cites in the us, and academically through the two 4-credit courses offered on this program. one benefit from the urban setting of new york city is its proximity to museums, libraries, theatres, galleries, nongovernmental organizations, international organizations, and global industries, such as finance. this pre-professional program leverages our strong alumni community and internship opportunities in nyc with two academic courses on the history of the people of new yorkprograms of study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53 199 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 pm and the theatre industry on and off broadway. this is a collaborative program between centre, sewanee, and rhodes: each school will send students to participate. student applications are on the buckman center's website. course credit: f11 will be granted for satisfactory completion of this program. • academic internship – 8 credits • history 239: new york and its peoples, past and present – 4 credits (f3) • theatre 265: new york theater experience: the building of a culture and a career – 4 credits (f5) course descriptions: history 239: new york and its peoples, past and present this course explores new york city by studying the migrants and immigrants who have settled there since its founding. it explores how migrants and immigrants change new york, how the city changes them, and the significance of ethnic diversity in the city’s politics and culture. we will read scholarly writings, examine films and music as primary sources, take field trips to immigrant neighborhoods, and visit museums devoted to migration and immigration. at every opportunity, we will venture outside our classroom to learn about the city through direct observation. new york city is a place of constant change, but its defining traits have been present since its earliest times: a dynamic economy that generates both wealth and poverty; ethnic diversity and ethnically defined neighborhoods; religious pluralism; turf-based politics that features ethnic mobilizations and coalitions; and a hybrid popular culture. all of these can be traced to the long history of migration and immigration in new york city. in this course, you will learn in and from new york city. you will explore the past and present of the city in light of its migrants (primarily african american and puerto rican u.s. citizens) and immigrants from europe, latin america, the caribbean, and asia. we’ll study how migrants and immigrants change new york city, how new york city changes them, and the enduring significance of ethnic diversity in the city’s politics and culture. theatre 265: new york theater experience: the building of a culture and a career the class will highlight the personal, cultural, and professional value of theater through attending eight live performances at a variety of venues: including broadway, the center of the global commercial theater world, new york’s public theater, the non-profit home where many great artists and new plays have been developed and nurtured, as well as others. the class will also offer weekly discussions highlighting the history/mission of each institution and discussing different professional disciplines within the field. the lectures will be supported by reading of current articles written on key issues within the industry, andprograms of study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53 200 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 pm post show discussions with artist involved in the various productions. printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/rhodes-study-abroad-and-away- programs/new-york-city-internship-program summer programs "maymesters" rhodes summer programs, commonly referred to as "maymesters", take place over the summer in may, june, july, or august. generally, programs may begin as early as the day after commencement and will end before opening convocation. most maymesters are about three weeks long, though they may take place over as few as two weeks or as many as six weeks. most maymesters are international, though several are domestic. in consultation with the director of the buckman center for international education, faculty members propose, design, and lead their own maymesters. it's normal for program development to take about 11 months. course content: generally, each maymester's coursework takes place within the academic discipline of the faculty leader. for course titles, descriptions, credits, and foundations credit, see the buckman center's website for current maymester programs. rhodes typically offers 10-12 maymesters each summer, based on faculty interest and availability. some programs operate every year; others alternate years or are only offered every several years. new programs are always being developed, thanks to the buckman international curricular development grants, which provide funds for faculty to travel/research for the development of new maymesters. the following is a list of maymesters offered in the last several years, with an * next to ones operating summer 2023: • ancient greek mythology • art and art history: archaeological fieldwork in greece • arts and language across spain* • buddhism in thai society* • caesarea city and port exploration project* • classical music appreciation in vienna • environmental archaeology at ames* (domestic)programs of study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53 201 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 pm • environmental field study in namibia* • french immersion maymester in togo* • health and mental health disparities in an international context, the case of thailand • healthy cities: the political economy of urban policymaking • holocaust travel seminar • intensive language - german • intensive language - russian • international business cases and religion in the low country* • rhodes in china: chinese and political science • rhodes in rennes: french national and regional identity and culture • search abroad in latin america • south africa maymester: business and psychology* • spanish immersion in ecuador* • summer school in london* • summer study in europe • the urban world of the first christians printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/rhodes-study-abroad-and-away- programs/summer-programs-maymesters urban studies the urban studies program houses two majors — urban studies and health equity — that enable students to explore and understand urban experiences in their richness and complexity and to appreciate how urban social contexts shape human health. the program provides an interdisciplinary learning experience grounded in the liberal arts and connected to concerns of the region and the world. through integrative teaching and research, students develop and apply the skills needed to analyze the dynamic processes and structures of urban life and health as well as the ways that cities contribute to global change. students engage fully with memphis and the diversity of the mid-south region, as they learn to situate them within a global context. the major combines coursework with urban field experiences, including internships, fellowships, and research with community partners. printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/urban-studies international study many urban studies students spend a semester abroad. we see comparativeprograms of study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53 202 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 pm perspectives as critical to examining cities and urban life. speak with a faculty advisor to determine a program that fits your interests. also, speak with the program chair before beginning the program to discuss courses and transfer credits. there are some programs that are designed specifically for urban studies students such as ihp “cities in the 21st century” and dis “urban studies in europe.” rhodes also offers maymester courses appropriate for urban studies students, including the course in london and glasgow, "healthy cities." printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/urban-studies/international-study requirements for a major in health equity requirements for a major in health equity a total of forty four (44) credits as follows: 1. urban studies 201: introduction to urban studies 2. a policy course chosen from the following: 1. politics and law 206: urban politics and policy 2. politics and law 320: health care policy 3. health equity 440: politics of health and health care policy 3. two health equity courses chosen from the following 1. religious studies 231: faith, health, and justice 2. health equity 210: introduction to health equity and health disparities or health equity 410: health equity and health disparities 3. africana studies 350: race thinking and health disparities 4. anthropology/sociology 347: medical sociology 5. anthropology/sociology 265: anthropology of health 6. health equity 420: developing cultural humility 7. health equity 435: global health, local practice 8. urban studies 235: principles of public health 4. a methods course chosen from the followingprograms of study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53 203 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 pm 1. health equity 445, research methods in health disparities 2. intd 225, geographic information systems 3. social statistics (urbn 220) 4. statistical methods (psyc 211) 5. statistical analysis for economics and business (econ 290) 6. applied statistics for the liberal arts (math 111) 5. a course designated as having a community engagement component. this course may not be fulfilled by the introduction to urban studies (urbn 201) course. this course may also count as an elective or requirement for the major. 6. urban studies 385: senior research design 7. urban studies 485: senior seminar 8. an additional 16 credit hours selected from a list of approved electives or other courses selected in consultation with a faculty advisor and approved by the program chair. **two electives (8 credits) must be taken at the 300 or 400 level. courses taken to complete required courses for the major (items 1-8 above) may not be used to fulfill this requirement. **no more than two 100-level courses may be used as major requirements or electives. the health equity courses listed below are regularly offered. other electives may be added during the academic year, including topics courses. during registration check banner web or the urban studies program office for a complete list of approved electives. in consultation with a faculty advisor, students may select other courses as electives provided the courses (1) are relevant to the social construction of health and (2) are approved by the chair of urban studies. • race thinking and health disparities (africana studies 350) • anthropology of health (anthropology/sociology 265) • race and ethnicity in american society (anthropology/sociology 331) • medical sociology (anthropology/sociology 347) • environmental science (biology 120) • embryology (biology 209) • genetics (biology 304 with lab or biology 303 without lab)programs of study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53 204 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 pm • molecular biology (biology 325) • virology/immunology (biology 330) • foundations of education (education 201) • race, class, gender, and sexuality in education (education 320) • introduction to health equity and health disparities (health equity 210) • health equity and disparities (health equity 410) • intercultural communication for healthcare (hleq 415) • developing cultural humility (health equity 420) • narrative medicine and inequality (health equity 430) • politics of health and health care policy (health equity 440) • global health and local practice (health equity 435) • research methods in health disparities (health equity 445) • african american history (history 242) • the civil rights movement (history 243) • history of poverty in the united states (history 249) • urban history (history 205) • geographic information systems (interdepartmental 225) • music and healing (music 105) • medical ethics (philosophy 303) • health care policy (politics and law 320) • psychology of health (psychology 220) • community psychology (psychology 330) • infant and child development (psychology 229) community and program evaluation (psychology 350) • statistical methods (psychology 211) • faith, health, and justice (religious studies 231) • pain, suffering, and death (religious studies 233) • health equity internship (religious studies 460) • social statistics (urban studies 220) • intercultural knowledge and competence (urban studies 250) • music and community in memphis (urban studies 262 or 382) • topics in urban studies (urban studies 265 or 365) • nonprofits in the city (urban studies 340) • internship (urban studies 460) printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/urban-studies/requirements- major-health-equity requirements for a major in urban studiesprograms of study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53 205 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 pm requirements for a major in urban studies a total of forty-four (44) credits as follows: 1. urban studies 201: introduction to urban studies 2. politics and law 206: urban politics and policy 3. one 4 credit course that addresses race and ethnicity in the united states 1. malcolm/martin/baldwin/america (africana studies 220) 2. africana theory (africana studies 305) 3. race thinking and health disparities (africana studies 350) 4. indigenous people of north america (anthropology/sociology 221) 5. race and ethnicity in american society (anthropology/sociology 331) 6. survey in african american literature (english 224) 7. study in african american literature (english 264) 8. african american history (history 242) 9. the civil rights movement (history 243) 10. african american music (music 118) 11. philosophy of race and racism (philosophy 220) 12. faith, health, and justice (religious studies 231) 13. black theology (religious studies topics course) 14. intercultural knowledge and competence (urban studies 250) (other courses may fulfill this requirement, and will require permission of the chair of urban studies) 4. one methods course from the following list by the end of the junior year: 1. gis (intd 225) 2. social statistics (urbn 220) 3. statistical methods (psyc 211)programs of study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53 206 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 pm 4. statistical analysis for economics and business (econ 290) 5. applied statistics for the liberal arts (math 111) 5. one 4 credit course that has a community-engagement component from the following list: 1. justice in the city: nonprofits, community and social change (urbn 340) 2. community psychology (psyc 330) 3. community development & action (urbn 350) 4. (other courses may fulfill this requirement, and will require permission of the chair of urban studies) 6. urban studies 385: senior research design 7. urban studies 485: senior capstone seminar 8. an additional 16 credit hours selected from a list of approved electives or other courses selected in consultation with a faculty advisor and approved by the program chair. these courses should support student interests and future goals. * one elective must have a global or comparative perspective. * only one elective may be taken at the 100 level. *two electives (8 credits) must be taken at the 300 or 400 level. courses taken to complete required courses for the major (items 1-7 above) may not be used to fulfill this requirement. urban studies electives that are regularly offered are listed below. urban studies elective courses may be added during the school year, including topics courses as appropriate. during registration, check banner web or the urban studies program office for a complete list of urban studies electives. in consultation with a faculty advisor, students may select other courses as electives provided the courses (1) are relevant to urban institutions or issues and (2) are approved by the chair of urban studies. urban studies electives: • africana theory (africana studies 305) • race thinking and health disparities (africana studies 350) • art and life in pompeii (art history 353) • race and ethnicity in american society (anthropology/sociology 331)programs of study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53 207 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 pm • sociology of education (anthropology/sociology 341) • environmental science (biology 120) • management of organizations (business 361) • foundations of education (education 201) • urban education (education 220) • race, class, gender, and sexuality in education (education 320) • environment and society (environmental studies and sciences 150) • african american history (history 242) • the civil rights movement (history 243) • politics of migration (international studies 340) • public policy analysis (politics and law science 305) • community psychology (psychology 250) • urban geography (urban studies 230) • intercultural knowledge and competence (urban studies 250) • music and community in memphis (urban studies 262) • topics in urban studies (urban studies 265) • black communities and law enforcement (urbn 270) • globalization and cities (urban studies 320) • asian urbanization through cinema (urban studies 330) • justice and the city: nonprofits, community and social change (urban studies 340) • urban political economy (urban studies 345) • community development & action (urban studies 350) • sentencing, corrections, and american law (urbn 261) • advanced seminar in urban studies (urban 365) • music and community in memphis (urban studies 382) • internship (urban studies 460) printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/urban-studies/requirements- major-urban-studies requirements for a minor in health equity a total of 24 credits as follows: 1. introduction to urban studies (urbn 201) 2. two courses from the list under requirement #3 for the health equity majorprograms of study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53 208 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 pm 3. three electives chosen from the list of electives in the health equity major. at least one course has to be designated as community engaged. at least one course must be at 300 or 400 level printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/urban-studies/requirements- minor-health-equity requirements for a minor in urban studies a total of 24 credits as follows: 1. introduction to urban studies (urban studies 201) 2. one 4 credit course that has a community-engagement component from the following list: 1. justice in the city: nonprofits, community and social change (urbn 340) 2. community psychology (psyc 330) 3. community development & action (urbn 350) 4. (other courses may fulfill this requirement, and will require permission of the chair of urban studies) 3. four courses selected from the urban studies curriculum (including urban studies major requirements and electives.) courses in the urban studies major and urban studies electives that are regularly offered are listed under the major. urban studies elective courses may be added during the school year, including topics courses as appropriate. during registration, check banner web or the urban studies program office for a complete list of urban studies electives. other courses may be used to fulfill the minor requirement provided the courses: 1) contain an urban institutional or urban issues focus, and 2) are approved for minor credit by the chair of urban studies. ** four of the courses in the minor must come from fields outside of one’s major. ** one course in the minor must be taken at the 300 or 400 level. printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/urban-studies/requirements- minor-urban-studies urban studies: core faculty and program advisoryprograms of study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53 209 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 pm committee core faculty • stephanie cage , lynn and henry turley memphis center • austin harrison, urban studies program • peter hossler , urban studies program • kendra hotz , urban studies program • charles hughes , urban studies program • andrea jacobo, urban studies program • duane t. loynes sr. , urban studies program, africana studies program • elizabeth thomas, department of psychology • shaolu yu , urban studies program program advisory committee • john bass, department of music • sarah boyle , department of biology zachary casey , educational studies program • evelyn perry , department of anthropology and sociology • elizabeth pettinaroli, modern languages, latin american studies • amy risley, international studies printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/programs-study/urban-studies/urban-studies- core-faculty-and-program-advisory-committeeprograms of study https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/53 210 of 210 7/25/23, 12:55 pm home »matters of record published on rhodes college: rhodes catalogue (https://catalog.rhodes.edu/) matters of record printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/matters-record administration office of the president jennifer m. collins. president. b.a., yale university; j.d., harvard law school. anne gaudet beard. chief of staff. b.a., rhodes college; m.i.b., american graduate school of international management. kristen h. hunt. executive coordinator. b.s., university of tennessee, knoxville; capm. angelia s. brittain. president’s office coordinator. b.a., college of william and mary; m.b.a., vanderbilt university. athletics, physical education and recreation jim duncan. director of athletics. b.s.b.a., university of kansas. matthew v. dean. associate athletic director for facilities and operations. b.s. and m.s., drake university. kimberly house. associate athletic director for compliance and student-athlete success. b.a., university of memphis. jeffrey m. cleanthes. assistant athletic director and head baseball coach. b.a., drew university; m.b.a., rutgers university. robert l. shankman. assistant athletic director and head track & cross country coach. b.a., rhodes college; m.ed., university of memphis. jennifer l. tinnell. assistant athletic director and head women’s tennis coach/senior woman administrator. b.a., m.b.a., berry college. rebecca arbino. head softball coach. b.a., san diego state university; m.s., colorado state university. blake bennett. assistant baseball coach. b.a., university of memphis. jennifer k. bone. athletic administrative coordinator. b.a., anderson university; m.s., university of memphis. antonio brown. assistant football coach. b.f.a., berry college. matters of record https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/311 1 of 85 7/25/23, 12:56 pm tom campbell. head men's golf coach. b.s., transylvania university. tyler h. cempre. head men's tennis coach and assistant sports information director. b.a., denison university. andrew chau. assistant football coach. b.s., united states merchant marine academy; m.b.a., university of florida. john combs. assistant men's lacrosse coach. b.a., state university of new york at potsdam; m.a., northwestern university. christopher n. dilella. assistant football coach. b.a., king’s college; m.a., castleton state college. matthew dsida. assistant cross country and track & field coach. b.a., rhodes college; m.a., belmont university. rich duncan. football coach. b.f.a., bethany college; m.a., loras college. averill erdody. head field hockey coach. b.a., university of massachusetts lowell; m.a.e., southeastern university andrew b. gibson. director of athletic training. b.s., university of memphis; m.s., murray state university; atc, lat, cscs, pes, ces. steven goodson. head men's basketball coach. b.s., university of kentucky. peter green. head volleyball coach. b.f.a., small business management cedarville university. marcus a. harris. assistant track and field coach. b.a., texas southern university. matt kalb. assistant football coach. b.f.a., university of kentucky; m.a., valparaiso university. meghan s. keelan. head women’s lacrosse coach and assistant coordinator of club sports. b.a., university of maryland, baltimore county; m.b.a., shepherd university. thomas kirk. assistant men's soccer coach. b.s., m.s., castleton university. matthew c. lamb. head men's soccer coach. b.a., university of mary washington. ben mathias. assistant football coach. b.s., university of wisconsin - la crosse; m.b.a., carroll university. patrick t. mcgrail. assistant men’s basketball coach. b.a., rhodes college. jackson mumford. assistant men's lacrosse coach. b.a., gettysburg college; m.s., mcdaniel college. stacie murray-owers. head women’s soccer coach. b.a., university of massachusetts, amherst; m.b.a., m.ed., christian brothers university. carlos ocasio. staff athletic trainer. b.s., state university of new york college at cortland. rodney rogan. head women’s basketball coach. b.b.a., millsaps college. robert d. schrier. associate head baseball coach and coordinator of outdoor facilities. b.a., rhodes college. michael sheridan. associate head athletic trainer. b.s., colby-sawyer college. kiersten still. assistant volleyball coach. c trainer. b.s., columbia college; m.s., m.ed., university of tampa. abbie verbeke. staff athletic trainer. b.s., m.s., west chester university ofmatters of record https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/311 2 of 85 7/25/23, 12:56 pm pennsylvania. judi vigneulle. assistant women's basketball coach. b.s., university of mobile; m.a., university of west alabama. steve webb. head swimming and diving coach and aquatics coordinator. b.s., florida state university. j. david zazzaro. head men’s lacrosse coach and fitness room supervisor. b.a., drew university; m.b.a., regis university. vacant. director of athletic media relations. vacant. staff athletic trainer. vacant. head women's golf coach. vacant. assistant field hockey coach. vacant. assistant swimming coach. vacant. assistant tennis coach. vacant. assistant women's lacrosse coach. vacant. assistant women's soccer coach. office of academic affairs katherine c. bassard. provost and vice president for academic affairs. b.a., wake forrest; m.a., virginia commonwealth university; ph.d., rutgers university. rashna w. richards. associate provost. b.a. narsee monjee college; m.a. university of mumbai; m.a. west virginia university; ph.d. university of florida. natalie k. person. dean for curricular development. b.a., university of mississippi; m.s., memphis state university; ph.d., university of memphis. vacant. dean for faculty recruitment, development and diversity. vacant. dean for faculty reviews and assessment. vacant. director of assessment. jessica c. kelso. director of health professions advising. b.s., m.a., bowling green state university. melissa hardy. assistant director of health professions advising. b.a., florida international university; m.s., kansas state university; m.a., university of memphis. lauren pringle. assistant director of health professions advising. b.a., rowan university; m.s., university of massachusetts. joseph kelly. teacher licensure coordinator. ph.d. southern baptist theological seminary. anna r. eldridge. director of pre-legal advising and mock trial. b.a., rhodes college; j.d., duke university school of law. charles hughes. director of the turley memphis center. ph.d., university of wisconsin- madison. stephanie n. cage. associate director of the turley memphis center. a.a.s., southwest tennessee community college; b.b.a., m.a., university of memphis. matters of record https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/311 3 of 85 7/25/23, 12:56 pm iris a. mercado. urban studies and the turley memphis center program coordinator. b.a., rhodes college. bentley burnham. director of cubesat project. b.a., lehigh university; m.a., ph.d., duke university. april l. allen. academic affairs coordinator. b.b.a., lambuth university; m.b.a., university of memphis. steven drieberg. administrative assistant ii. a.a., morningside institute of arts. mike curb institute for music john b. bass. director of the mike curb institute for music and special initiatives. b.m., university of southern mississippi; m.m., ph.d., university of memphis. buckman center for international education erin r. hillis. director of international programs. b.a., m.a., ph.d., university of memphis. elin ovrebo. associate director of international programs. b.a., m.a., ph.d., university of memphis. rachel gasser. international education advisor. b.s., tennessee technological university. aliza moran. international education advisor. b.f.a., university of memphis; m.a., new york university. registrar amanda law maxson. registrar. b.a., rhodes college; m.b.a., berry college. dawn carpenter. associate registrar. b.a., university of florida; m.b.a., christian brothers university. april vincent. assistant registrar. b.a., southeast missouri state university; m.a., bethel university. april perdomo. registrar data specialist. b.a., university of mississippi; m.a., university of memphis. academic staff tangela allgood. departmental assistant, biology, environmental studies and sciences, and neuroscience. a.a., southwest tennessee community college. christy arnold. departmental assistant, religious studies, art and art history, and philosophy. bonnie burgette. departmental assistant, history. b.a., christian brothers university. kate collier. departmental assistant, computer science, mathematics and statistics, physics, and chemistry. m.ed., christian brothers university; m.p.a., university ofmatters of record https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/311 4 of 85 7/25/23, 12:56 pm memphis. jordy gentry. laboratory supervisor and biological safety officer, biology. b.a. university of memphis. hannah guess. departmental assistant, economics, business, politics and law, and accounting graduate program. b.a., m.a., university of memphis. anjeanette t. johnson-tiamiyu. departmental assistant, anthropology, sociology, and psychology. amber lewis. departmental assistant, educational studies, health equity, and urban studies. b.a. university of alabama. ethan mcvay. studio arts technician - part time, art and art history. rosanna p. meindl. part-time visual resources curator, art and art history. b.a., lewis and clark college; m.a., university of oregon. karen l. mosley. instrument technician and chemical safety officer, chemistry. b.s., m.s., university of memphis. victor o. obadina. physics instructional support specialist, physics. b.a., fisk university; m.s., alabama a&m university. erika pope. musical arts coordinator, music. b.a., henderson state university. justin a. porter. laboratory manager, biology. b.s., m.s., university of georgia. maya robertson. departmental assistant, international studies and search. b.s., northwestern state university; m.s., ed.d. grambling state university. christy m. waldkirch. departmental assistant, modern languages and literatures and ancient mediterranean studies. stewart white. part time technical associate. b.s., california state university, hayward; m.b.e., christian brothers university. lorie w. yearwood. departmental assistant, english. a.a.s., state technical institute at memphis. information services, paul barret jr. library harvey smith. chief information officer. b.s., university of memphis; m.b.a., union university. darlene d. brooks. director of the barret library. b.a., m.l.i.s., university of tennessee, knoxville. stacy s. pennington. director of infrastructure and enterprise applications. b.a., rhodes college. richard t. trenthem, jr. director of academic technologies. b.a., rhodes college; m.l.i.s., university of texas at austin. stephen barber. instructional systems specialist. michael r. akin. desktop support specialist. b.a., rhodes college. greg bowman. systems analyst. b.s., arkansas state university. brian braskich. systems programmer analyst. b.a., university of iowa; m.a., united theological seminary of the twin cities. matters of record https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/311 5 of 85 7/25/23, 12:56 pm steve brummel, assistant director of user engagement and experience. b.a., aurora university; b.a., columbia college chicago; m.s., dominican university; m.ed., university of st. francis. cody dillon. network and computer engineer. a.a.s., southwest tennessee community college. rachel feinman. head of cataloging and collection development librarian. b.s., m.l.s., florida state university. amanda ford. head of circulation. b.a., mississippi state university. caley a. foreman. senior desktop specialist. b.a., mississippi state university. caitlin e. gewin. instructional technologist. b.a., rhodes college. marci hendrix. administrative assistant ii. b.a., rhodes college. roland d. handy. desktop support specialist. a.a.s., mid-south community college. s. lance kimbrell. manager of instructional technology. a.a.s., mississippi delta community college. felicia l. knox. information services librarian. b.s., university of tennessee, chattanooga; m.a.ed., union university. emma kruse. circulation supervisor. b.a., rhodes college. mark e. miller. system administrator. b.b.a., university of memphis. kenan c. padgett. interlibrary loan and information services librarian. b.a., elon college; m.l.s., university of north carolina at greensboro. gregory j. paraham. electronic resources librarian. b.a., university of memphis; m.l.s., louisiana state university. robert scrivener. desktop support specialist. a.a., northwest community college. william m. short. associate director of library services. curator for the jessie l. clough art memorial for teaching. b.a., rhodes college; m.l.s., george peabody college of vanderbilt university. edward a. trouy. network and computer engineer. a.e.t., state technical institute, memphis. elisha j. vego. database analyst. b.s., university of memphis. douglas g. walker. system administrator. a.a.s., state technical institute, memphis. rashauna wright. information services librarian. b.a., university of north carolina -chapel hill; m.l.i.s., north carolina central university; ph.d., university of illinois at urbana-champaign. office of communications linda bonnin. vice president for marketing and communications. b.a., harding university. justin w. mcgregor. executive director of marketing and communications. b.s., middle tennessee state university. vacant. director of strategic communications. matters of record https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/311 6 of 85 7/25/23, 12:56 pm troy wiggins. director of marketing. b.a., m.p.a., university of memphis. jana d. files. assistant director of digital communications. b.a., rhodes college. charles w. kenny. assistant director of communications. b.f.a., university of tennessee at knoxville. larry d. ahokas. graphic designer. b.m.e., university of nebraska. dionne r. chalmers. media relations manager. b.a. and m.a., university of memphis. matthew r. cowgur. senior full stack digital developer. b.s., taylor university. matthew harris. interactive communications strategist. b.a., rhodes college. ethan i. van drimmelen. videographer/photographer. b.a., sarah lawrence college; m.b.a., christian brothers university. office of student life nicole johnson. vice president for student life. b.a., university of iowa; m.s., arkansas tech university. alicia c. golston. dean of students. b.a., m.a., university of memphis; ed.d., western kentucky university. melissa campbell. dean of student success. b.s., middle tennessee state university; m.s., texas a&m university. jazmin rodriguez. dean of equity and engagement. b.s., university of central florida. jennifer soler-rodriguez. director of academic and learning resources. b.s., university of the sacred heart. christopher williams. director of community engagement. b.s., bethel university; m.a., mccormick theological seminary. richard adams. director of community standards. b.a., albany state university; m.ed., georgia southern university. anne strickland. director of student engagement. b.s., m.ed., auburn university. brittney jackson. director of first year experience and transitions. b.s., university of tennessee; m.s., university of memphis. sarah woods. assistant director of academic and learning resources. b.a., m.a., university of mississippi. vacant. assistant director of student engagement. vacant. bonner center coordinator. jennifer leili. coordinator - student life. b.s., m.s., university of central florida; ph.d., university of south florida. danielle donze. manager of student life operations and initiatives. b.a., m.a., fontbonne university. alexa o'hara. student success care manager. b.s., university of tennessee; m.s.w., university of memphis. dominique brooks. administrative assistant ii. b.a., lane college.matters of record https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/311 7 of 85 7/25/23, 12:56 pm career services sandra george tracy. director of career services. b.a., purdue university; m.a., bowling green state university. amy l. moen. associate director of career services. b.s., florida state university; m.a., brigham young university. rachelle brown. assistant director of career development. b.s., tennessee state university; m.ed., university of west georgia. jessica flanigan. assistant director of internships and experiential education. b.s., m.s., kansas state university. chaplain beatrix a. weil. chaplain. b.a., university of notre dame; m.div., princeton theological seminary. counseling and student development center pamela m. detrie. director of student counseling. b.s., university of north carolina at chapel hill; m.ed., clemson university; ph.d., university of memphis. elizabeth harcourt. associate director of student counseling. b.a., rhodes college; m.s., university of tennessee; l.c.s.w. molly rafaely. assistant director of student counseling. b.s., m.s., mississippi state university; l.p.c. elise tanner. assistant director of student counseling. b.s., university of memphis; m.s., university of tennessee; l.c.s.w. dlessia wedley. assistant director of student counseling. b.s., university of tennessee; m.a., syracuse university; m.ed., widener university; ph.d., loma linda university. minnie munn. administrative assistant i. a.a., valley state university. student accessibility services melissa b. butler. director of student accessibility services. b.s., university of washington; m.s., university of memphis. health services vacant. director of student health and wellness. monica brown. staff nurse - rn. a.s.n., concorde career college; l.p.n., methodist school of practical nursing. dwayne westbrook. wellness center practice manager. b.s., university of tennessee - martin; m.b.a., university of tennessee - chattanooga.matters of record https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/311 8 of 85 7/25/23, 12:56 pm residence life aretha r. milligan. director of residence life. b.s., lane college; b.a., maryville university; m.a., indiana university of pennsylvania. vacant. associate director of residence life and education. jonathan vizenor. assistant director of residence life. b.s., california state university- fresno. emily duet. residence life coordinator. b.a., centenary college of louisiana; m.a., northwestern state university. morgan glenn. residence life coordinator. b.a., university of south caroline beaufort; m.div., liberty university. rhodes express stephanie l. chockley. rhodes express and student services manager. b.a., rhodes college. tamiko alexander. service specialist. b.a., alcorn state university; m.a., webster university. lucy o'sullivan. service specialist. b.f.a., rollins college. office of strategic initiatives sherry l. turner. vice president for strategic initiatives. b.a., rhodes college; m.t.s., emory university; m.s., north carolina state university; ph.d., university of illinois, urbana-champaign. inez warner. title ix coordinator. b.s., university of tennessee at martin; j.d., liberty university school of law. dr. fitzpatrick anyanwu. chief institutional research and data strategist. b.s., m.s., ed.d., oklahoma state university. vacant. senior institutional research and data analyst. quan dinh. data analyst. b.s., rhodes college. valarie neville. administrative assistant ii. office of development jennifer goodloe wade. vice president for development. b.s., university of tennessee, knoxville; m.ed., vanderbilt university. amanda g. tamburrino. senior director of development. b.a., rhodes college. kerry a. connors. senior director of development initiatives and advancement systems.matters of record https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/311 9 of 85 7/25/23, 12:56 pm b.a., marist college. anna mccrarey. director of development communications and digital content. b.b.a., oklahoma state university. kerri g. campbell. director of community relations. b.a., rhodes college; j.d., michigan state university. nicole tugg. director of athletic giving and senior development officer. b.a., rhodes college; m.b.a., university of colorado - colorado springs. j. knight champion. senior development officer. b.a., rhodes college; j.d., university of alabama. michael a. palazzolo. senior development officer. b.a., rhodes college. lydia spencer. director of grants and foundations. b.a., rhodes college. christian assandria. administrative assistant ii. elizabeth h. love. administrative assistant i. advancement services, strategy and stewardship nichole e. soule’. director of advancement services, strategy and stewardship and senior planned giving officer. b.a., rhodes college; j.d., university of memphis. bill hague. associate director of advancement services - research. b.a., rhodes college. heather schreiner. associate director of advancement services - stewardship. b.s., university of memphis. nancy mencke. stewardship manager. b.a., m.p.a., tulane university. sarah shambaugh. advancement services coordinator. b.a., rhodes college. regina t. dobbins. development assistant. alumni relations tracy v. patterson. senior director of alumni relations. b.a., rhodes college; j.d., university of memphis. mimi salazar. assistant director of alumni relations. b.a., rhodes college. adelaide turpin. alumni services coordinator. b.a., rhodes college. annual giving ellen celosky. director of annual giving. b.a., university of memphis. tripp riddle. associate director of annual giving. b.a., rhodes college. kelsey wolfe. assistant director of annual giving. b.f.a., rhodes college. jacquelyn carney. administrative assistant i. college events nicole moore. senior director of college events and leadership projects. b.b.a.,matters of record https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/311 10 of 85 7/25/23, 12:56 pm northeast louisiana university. shantih smythe. director of college events. b.a., union university. kevin collier. manager of campus scheduling. b.a., rhodes college. office of finance and business affairs kyle webb. vice president for finance and business affairs. b.a., rhodes college; c.p.a. finance kathleen b. cates. senior associate comptroller and director of accounting and payroll. b.b.a., university of memphis; c.p.a. vacant. director of accounting information systems. vacant. assistant director of accounting information systems. reida benson. accounting and finance analyst. b.b.a., mississippi state university. stacey l. duncan. procurement and business manager. b.a., university of memphis. tina l. nesmith. payroll manager. jared ison. expense accountant. b.a., university of tennessee at chattanooga; m.b.a., maryville university. vacant. accounts payable manager. bursar richard f. huddleston. bursar. b.a., rhodes college. campus safety vacant. associate vice president for campus safety. ike sloas. director of campus safety. a.a.s., b.s., arkansas state university; m.s., albany state university. shundreka jenkins. assistant director of campus safety. b.s., university of memphis; m.s., capella university. johnny austin. shift commander. physical plant brian e. foshee. director of physical plant and chief environmental safety compliance officer. b.s., christian brothers university. timothy h. lucas. associate director of physical plant. b.a., university of memphis. jeffrey a. mcclain. superintendent of maintenance. w. gregory jones. assistant superintendent of maintenance. matters of record https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/311 11 of 85 7/25/23, 12:56 pm l. mark fleming . superintendent of housekeeping. bobby e. parson. manager of special services. debbie newsom. administrative assistant i. human resources leigh a. powell. interim director of human resources. b.a., university of memphis; phr, shrm-cp. martha a. mcgeachy. benefits services manager. b.a., rhodes college; j.d., university of memphis; sphr. vacant. human capital management system and compensation manager. mariah hotard. manager of talent acquisition and development. b.b.a., university of louisiana at monroe; m.b.a., southern university. katherine a. bass. employee relations and payroll specialist. b.b.a., delta state university; m.b.a., bethel university. andrea mcadory. human resources generalist. b.a., university of memphis; shrm-cp. office of enrollment gil villanueva. vice president for enrollment. b.a., pitzer college; m.s., bucknell university. admission megan a. starling. director of admission. b.a., rhodes college; m.s., kennesaw state university. lauren b. sefton. director of international admission. b.a., rhodes college. jose garcia. associate director of admission for diversity and access. b.s., dana college; m.s., alcorn state university. piyush kumar. senior assistant director of admission. b.s., rhodes college; m.s., bluefield college. mcclintock trammell. senior assistant director of admission. b.a., washington and lee university. sydney jones. assistant director of admission. b.a., rhodes college. vacant. senior assistant director of admission. vacant. senior assistant director of admission. vacant. assistant director of admission. vacant. assistant director of admission. vacant. assistant director of admission. jo l. gibbons. campus visit data coordinator. jessica g. jones. campus visit service coordinator. b.a., mississippi state university.matters of record https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/311 12 of 85 7/25/23, 12:56 pm enrollment services vacant. director of enrollment services. hunter pruitt. associate director of enrollment services. b.s., michigan state university. natalie shinault. enrollment systems and communications specialist. b.s., university of tennessee; m.b.a., western governors university. financial aid michael d. morgan. director of financial aid. b.s., university of kentucky. arlisha walton. associate director of financial aid. a.a., northwest mississippi community college; m.b., remington college. kandra l. kolehmainen. assistant director of financial aid. b.a., university of iowa. the bookstore (managed by follett higher education group) betty a. mohler. campus store lead. b.a., christian brothers university. printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/matters-record/administration board of trustees legal title - rhodes college board of trustees deborah legg craddock , chair. wilton d. "chick" hill , vice chair. jennifer m. collins, president, ex officio. john h. bryan, iii , secretary. meri armour. m.s.n./m.b.a., memphis, tennessee. retired. president, le bonheur children’s hospital. john h. bryan, iii . b.a. nashville, tennessee. president, savannah food company. chris cardwell. b.a., j.d. nashville, tennessee. attorney, gullett sanford robinson and martin. darrell cobbins. b.a. memphis, tennessee. president and ceo, universal commercial real estate. deborah legg craddock. b.a. memphis, tennessee. retired. president of trading,matters of record https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/311 13 of 85 7/25/23, 12:56 pm southeastern asset management, inc. meg thomas crosby. b.a. memphis, tennessee. principal, peoplecap advisors; operating partner, ssm partners. james r. downing . m.d. memphis, tennessee. president and chief executive officer, st. jude children’s research hospital. maria farahani. b.a. austin, texas. co-owner of fara coffee and co-founder of fara foundation. daniel b. hatzenbuehler. b.a., j.d. pittsboro, north carolina. retired. chairman/ceo, e. ritter and company sally jones heinz. b.a., m.a. memphis, tennessee. executive director of the metropolitan inter-faith association. wilton d. “chick” hill. b.s. memphis, tennessee. retired. owner, davidson hotel company. susan logan huffman. b.a., c.f.a. piperton, tennessee. principal and chief investment officer of reliant investment management. elizabeth hurley. b.a., m.a. chicago, illinois. chief development officer, lyric opera of chicago. marcus kimbrough. b.a., m.b.a. charlotte, north carolina. vice president, partnerships & advancement with levine museum of the new south. marie louise “m.l.” i. kinder. b.b.a, m.b.a houston, texas. steven r. lainoff. b.a., j.d., ll.m. mclean, virginia. retired. principle-in-charge, kpmg llp’s complex transactions group. william j. michaelcheck. b.a., mba. new york, new york. founder/co-cio, mariner investment group, llc. ryan d. mire . b.s., m.d. franklin, tennessee. physician, st. thomas hospital. johnny b. moore, jr. b.a. memphis, tennessee. regional president, truist. elizabeth roe pearce. b.a., m.b.a. atlanta, georgia. chief development officer, the lovett school. charles robertson . b.s., ph.d. wilmington, delaware. retired. chief technical consultant and founder, nanodrop technologies, llc. joshua d. solomon b.a. atlanta, georgia. private wealth advisor, merrill lynch. trustees emeriti bruce e. campbell, jr. b.a., m.b.a. memphis, tennessee. chairman of the executive committee and chairman emeritus of the board, national commerce bancorporation. kenneth f. clark, jr. b.a., m.b.a., ll.b. memphis, tennessee. counsel, wyatt, tarrant & combs. j. lester crain, jr. b.a., ll.b. memphis, tennessee. private investor.matters of record https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/311 14 of 85 7/25/23, 12:56 pm w. neely mallory, jr. b.a. memphis, tennessee. president and chief executive officer, the mallory group inc.; managing partner, mallory farms; chairman of ewr. frank m. mitchener, jr. b.s. sumner, mississippi. president, mitchener planting company. elizabeth lemaster simpson . b.a. memphis, tennessee. new council of emeriti trustees james h. barton. a.b., j.d. memphis, tennessee. president and treasurer, barton group, inc. robert h. buckman. b.s., m.b.a. memphis, tennessee. chairman of the executive committee of the board of directors at bulab holdings, inc. c. williams butler, iii. b.a. memphis, tennessee. retired first vice-president and manager of the commodity international division, national bank of commerce, memphis. joe m. duncan. b.a., ll.b. memphis, tennessee. partner, burch, porter and johnson. william e. evans . b.sc., pharm.d. memphis, tennessee. endowed chair in pharmacogenomics, st. jude children's research hospital. phillip h. mcneill, sr. b.s., j.d. memphis, tennessee. chairman of the board, equity inns, inc. and president of mcneill investment co. vicki g. palmer . b.a., m.b.a, atlanta, georgia. retired executive vice-president, coca- cola enterprises, inc. randall r. rhea. b.s., m.d. roanoke, virginia. managing partner, carilion clinic family medicine spence l. wilson . b.a., m.b.a. memphis, tennessee. president, kemmons wilson, inc. printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/matters-record/board-trustees college sponsored lecture series the academic life of rhodes is enhanced considerably by annual sponsored programs which make it possible for authorities in various fields of study to come to the college and to participate in a variety of events with faculty and students. the lillian and morrie moss endowment for the visual arts established in 1984, the moss endowment brings to the college each year guest lecturers and visiting scholars in the fields of art, art history, and criticism for the benefit of rhodes students and the memphis community. this series has attracted national attention for its roster of speakers selected from the world's leading experts in the fields of art and artmatters of record https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/311 15 of 85 7/25/23, 12:56 pm history. the peyton nalle rhodes physics lecture series annually since 1984, the peyton n. rhodes physics lecture series has brought to the campus and community experts in the physical sciences and astronomy. endowed by friends of the former physics professor, president and namesake of the college, the lecture series has acquainted students, faculty, and friends with new developments and changing interpretations of the physical world. james f. ruffin lecture in the fine arts established in 2001, the james f. ruffin lecture in the fine arts brings to campus speakers and symposia focused on the visual arts. the lectures are funded by a 1999 bequest from the late james f. ruffin, founder and operator of ruffin's import and interiors. the springfield music lectures the springfield music lectures were established in 1991 by a bequest from the late john murry springfield, '51. each year an outstanding musicologist, researcher, music historian or music theorist presents both formal and informal lectures that foster an increased appreciation of music as an academic discipline. these lectures are open to the public as well as to the rhodes community. the mike curb concert series the mike curb institute for music at rhodes college was founded in 2006 through a generous gift from the mike curb family foundation. through the curb concert series, the institute brings significant musicians associated with memphis and the surrounding region to campus for concerts and interactions with the rhodes community. all concerts are free and open to the general public. the jack d. farris visiting writer series the jack d. farris visiting writers series was established in 2013 by a bequest from the late kathleen mcclain, class of 1974, as a memorial to her beloved teacher, mentor and friend, professor jack d. farris. the annual series brings to campus a renowned creative writer for lectures, workshops, and a public reading and reception. printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/matters-record/college-sponsored-lecture-series emeritimatters of record https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/311 16 of 85 7/25/23, 12:56 pm mary ross burkhart . professor emerita of english since 1982. b.a., mary washington college of the university of virginia; m.a., university of tennessee. angelo margaris . professor emeritus of mathematics since 1983. b.e.e., cornell university; m.a., syracuse university; ph.d., cornell university. jack r. conrad . professor emeritus of anthropology since 1984. a.b. and m.a., emory university; ph.d., duke university. richard c. wood . professor emeritus of english since 1988. b.a., rhodes; m.a., columbia university. william l. daniels . professor emeritus of english since 1990. b.a. and m.a., vanderbilt university; ph.d., harvard university. frederic r. stauffer . professor emeritus of physics since 1990. b.s. and m.s., bucknell university. johann bruhwiler . professor emeritus of german since 1991. b.a., carleton university (canada); m.a. and ph.d., university of cincinnati. jack h. taylor . professor emeritus of physics since 1992. b.s., rhodes college; ph.d., the johns hopkins university. robert g. patterson . professor emeritus of religious studies since 1993. b.a., washington and lee university; b.d., union theological seminary (virginia); ph.d., yale university. lawrence k. anthony . professor emeritus of art since 1995. b.a., washington and lee university; m.f.a., university of georgia. milton p. brown, jr . professor emeritus of religious studies since 1995. a.b., birmingham-southern college; b.d., louisville presbyterian theological seminary; ph.d., duke university. rebecca sue legge . professor emerita of business administration since 1995. b.b.a., m.b.a. and ph.d., university of mississippi. herbert w. smith . professor emeritus of psychology since 1995. b.a. and m.a., east texas state university; ph.d., florida state university. g. kenneth williams . professor emeritus of mathematics and computer science since 1995. b.a.e. and m.a., university of kentucky; ph.d., university of virginia. f. thomas cloar . professor emeritus of psychology since 1996. b.a., rhodes college; m.a., university of memphis; ph.d., university of alabama. james w. jobes, jr . professor emeritus of philosophy since 1996. b.a., st. john’s college; ph.d., university of virginia. donald w. tucker . professor emeritus of spanish since 1998. b.s., davidson college; m.a. and ph.d., university of north carolina. edward a. barnhardt . associate professor emeritus of physics since 1999. b.s., rhodes college; m.s., vanderbilt university. james h. daughdrill, jr . president emeritus since 1999. b.a., emory university; m. div., columbia theological seminary; d.d., davidson college. charles c. orvis . professor emeritus of economics since 2000. b.a., state university at northridge, california; ph.d., university of minnesota.matters of record https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/311 17 of 85 7/25/23, 12:56 pm bobby r. jones . professor emeritus of biology since 2001. b.s., university of arkansas; ph.d., university of missouri. william l. lacy . professor emeritus of philosophy since 2001. b.a., rhodes college; ph.d., university of virginia. robert m. macqueen . professor emeritus of physics since 2001. b.s., rhodes college; ph.d., the johns hopkins university. f. michael mclain . professor emeritus of religious studies since 2003. b.a., depauw university; b.d., yale divinity school; ph.d., vanderbilt university. carolyn p. schriber . professor emerita of history since 2004. b.s., kent state university; m.a. and ph.d., university of colorado. john l. streete . professor emeritus of physics since 2004. b.s., rhodes college; m.s. and ph.d., university of florida. douglas w. hatfield . professor emeritus of history since 2005. b.a. baylor university; m.a. and ph.d., university of kentucky. robert g. mortimer . professor emeritus of chemistry since 2005. b.s. and m.s. utah state university; ph.d., california institute of technology. richard a. batey . professor emeritus of religious studies since 2006. b.a., david lipscomb college; b.d. and ph.d., vanderbilt university. horst r. dinkelacker . professor emeritus of german since 2006. staatsexamen, eberhard-karls-universität tübingen; ph. d., vanderbilt university diane m. clark . associate professor emerita of music since 2006. b.m., rhodes college; m.m., indiana university; d.a., university of mississippi. james c. lanier . professor emeritus of history since 2006. b.a., stetson university; m.a. and ph.d., emory university. robert r. llewellyn . associate professor emeritus of philosophy since 2006. b.a., davidson college; m.a. and ph.d., vanderbilt university. marshall e. mcmahon . professor emeritus of economics and business administration since 2007. b.a., university of the south; ph.d., vanderbilt university. j. peter ekstrom . associate professor emeritus of anthropology and sociology since 2007. b.a., beloit college; m.a. the american university; ph.d., university of illinois. james. m. vest . professor emeritus of french since 2009. a.b., davidson college; m.a. and ph.d., duke university. deborah n. pittman . associate professor emerita of economics and business since 2011. b.a. rhodes college; m.s. university of memphis; ph.d. university of memphis. john f. copper . distinguished professor emeritus of international studies since 2012. b.a. university of nebraska; m.a. university of hawaii; ph.d. university of south carolina. gail p. c. streete . professor emerita of religious studies since 2012. b.a., m.a., and m.l.s. suny at buffalo; m. phil. and ph.d. drew university. robert j. strandburg . professor emeritus of psychology since 2013. b.a., amherst college; m.a. and ph.d., university of california at los angeles. john s. olsen. professor emeritus of biology since 2014. b.s. and m.s. university of illinois; ph.d. university of texas.matters of record https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/311 18 of 85 7/25/23, 12:56 pm gail s. murray . professor emerita of history since 2016. a.b., university of michigan; m.s.e., university of central arkansas; and ph.d., university of memphis. bette j. ackerman . professor emerita of psychology since 2016. b.a., florida presbyterian college; m.a. & ph.d., university of florida. david y. jeter . professor emeritus of chemistry since 2016. b.s., texas a&m university; and ph.d., university of north carolina, chapel hill. jennifer brady. professor emerita of english since 2017. m.a. and ph.d., princeton university. julia ewing. professor emerita of theatre since 2017. b.a., sienna college; m.a university of memphis. valeria z. nollan. professor emerita of russian studies since 2017. b.a., university of delaware; m.a.. & ph.d., university of pittsburgh. john m. planchon. professor emeritus of commerce and business since 2019. a.b., a.m. university of missouri; ph.d. university of alabama. marcus d. pohlmann. professor emeritus of political science since 2019. b.a. cornell college; m.a. m. phil. ph.d. columbia university. pamela church . professor emerita of business since 2021. b.s., m.s. university of memphis; ph.d. university of houston. carolyn r. jaslow. professor emerita of biology since 2021. b.s. mount holyoke college; m.s. ohio university; ph.d. the university of chicago. brian w. shaffer. professor emeritus of english since 2021. a.b. washington university; ph.d. the university of iowa. marsha d. walton. professor emeritus of psychology since 2021. b.a. and ph.d. university of north carolina. terri lindquester. associate professor emerita of mathematics since 2022. b.s. & ph.d. emory university. gary lindquester . professor emeritus of biology since 2022. b.s. furman university; m.s. and ph.d. emory university. michael drompp . professor emeritus of history since 2022. b.a., m.a., & ph.d. indiana university. shira malkin . associate professor emerita of modern languages and literatures. b.a., m.a., & ph.d. universite de paris. printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/matters-record/emeriti endowments, awards, and memorials professorships and faculty fellowships the connie abston chair in literature was created in 1998 by former trustee dunbarmatters of record https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/311 19 of 85 7/25/23, 12:56 pm abston, jr. in honor of his wife. dr. caki wilkinson, associate professor of english, holds the abston chair. the winton m. blount chair in social sciences was provided by the estate of winton m. blount, chair of rhodes' board of trustees 1988-92. mr. blount was a former u.s. postmaster general and founder of blount, inc., an international construction firm based in montgomery, alabama. dr. katie white, professor of psychology, currently holds the blount chair. the l. palmer brown chair of interdisciplinary humanities supports a professorship in the interdisciplinary course, “the search for values in the light of western history and religion.” professor miriam clinton, professor of art and art history, is the current holder of the interdisciplinary professorship. the neville frierson bryan chair in african-american literary & cultural studies was established in 2002 by former trustee and alumna neville frierson bryan '58 of chicago. currently holds the bryan chair. the mertie willigar buckman chair in international studies was established in 1990 by trustee robert h. buckman to honor his mother. dr. nikolaos zahariadis, professor of international studies, holds the chair. the stanley j. buckman distinguished professorship of international studies , provided by trustee robert h. buckman, honors the founder of buckman laboratories and longtime friend and trustee of the college. the current occupant is dr. amy risley, professor of international studies. the lester crain chair in physics was established in 2002 by trustee and alumnus lester crain, jr. '51. dr. ann viano, associate professor of physics, currently holds the chair. the albert bruce curry professorship of religious studies was provided and sustained by second presbyterian church of memphis. dr. patrick gray, professor of religious studies, is the current curry professor. the elizabeth g. daughdrill and james h. daughdrill, jr. professorships were provided by the rhodes board of trustees in 1998 to recognize president and mrs. daughdrill's exemplary leadership and service to the college for 25 years. dr. vanessa rogers, associate professor of music, is the current occupant of the elizabeth g. daughdrill chair. the james h. daughdrill, jr. chair is held by dr. larryn peterson, associate professor of chemistry. the f. elaine donelson '59 chair in psychology allows for the creation of a department chair in psychology. the e. c. ellett professorship of mathematics and computer science was created bymatters of record https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/311 20 of 85 7/25/23, 12:56 pm edward coleman ellett, class of 1888. dr. erin bodine is the current ellett professor. the fulmer chair in political science for u.s. presidential studies was established in 2005 by arthur fulmer and the late nancy hill fulmer '51, rhodes trustee, to support work in the department of political science. dr. michael nelson, professor of political science, currently holds the fulmer chair. the charles r. glover professorship of english studies was provided by mrs. charles r. glover and is occupied by amy benson, associate professor of english. the william randolph hearst endowed teaching fellowship for minority graduate students supports minority teaching fellows at rhodes as they complete their dissertations. the ralph c. hon chair in economics was provided by alumni who studied under dr. hon during his tenure as professor of economics. dr. courtney collins, assistant professor of economics, currently holds the chair. the joseph r. hyde, iii professorship of political economy is an annually-funded position established in 2010 in the department of economics to support the study of political economy. it is provided by the j.r. hyde, iii family foundation and other anonymous donors. dr. shameel ahmed, assistant professor of economics, is the current occupant. the robert d. mccallum distinguished professorship of economics and business was funded by the late robert d. mccallum, chairman emeritus, valmac industries, inc. and life trustee of rhodes. dr. nick mckinney, professor of economics, is the current occupant. the j. j. mccomb professorship of history was provided by mr. j. j. mccomb and is occupied by dr. etty terem, professor of history. the irene and j. walter mcdonnell chair in greek and roman studies was established by trustee michael mcdonnell in memory of his parents. dr. kenny morrell, associate professor of ancient mediterranean studies, is the current occupant. the virginia ballou mcgehee professorship of muslim-christian relations was established by james e. mcgehee, jr. and virginia ballou mcgehee '46 in 2007. dr. john kaltner is the current occupant of the mcgehee chair. the w. j. millard professorship of religious studies was provided by his friends at evergreen presbyterian church in memphis and honors the late senior minister of the church. prof. brooke schedneck, associate professor of religious studies, is the current holder of the millard professorship. the plough professor of urban studies was provided by an endowment grant from thematters of record https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/311 21 of 85 7/25/23, 12:56 pm plough foundation. dr. elizabeth thomas, associate professor of psychology, is the current holder of this professorship. james t. and valeria b. robertson chair in biological science was established in 2005 by james t. robertson '53 and valeria b. robertson to support teaching and research in biology and related areas. prof. jonathan fitzgerald, associate professor of biology, holds the robertson chair. the james d. robinson chair in economics and business administration was established in 2004 by martha robinson to honor a professor in the chemistry, business or economics department. dr. kelly weeks, associate professor of business is the current holder of this chair. the james f. ruffin professorship of art and archaeology was established by the late james f. ruffin, jr., founder and operator of ruffin’s imports and interiors of memphis. his mark can be found all around the rhodes campus as well as the president’s home. the holder of the ruffin professorship is victor coonin, professor of art and art history. the j. s. seidman fellowship in international studies is supported by the estate of rhodes trustee p. k. seidman. dr. esen kirdis, associate professor of international studies currently holds this fellowship. the p. k. seidman distinguished professorship of political economy was provided by robert h. buckman and the late mertie w. buckman, in honor of their friend, the late p. k. seidman. dr. steve ceccoli, associate professor of international studies is the current p.k. seidman distinguished professor. the irma o. sternberg chair in history was established in 2012 with a gift from mrs. sternberg’s estate. dr. tim huebner is the first holder of this chair. the van vleet fellowship was provided by the van vleet foundation. the fellowship, occupied by dr. brent hoffmeister, professor of physics, provides for student research and strengthens the physics department. the robert r. waller chair in population health , named for trustee dr. bob waller, was established in 2017 to provide leadership and community for urban studies majors with a concentration in urban and community health. dr. kendra hotz, associate professor of urban studies, is the current chair. the r. a. webb professorship of religious studies was provided by a friend of the college. dr. sarah rollens, associate professor of religious studies is the current webb professor. the spence l. wilson distinguished chair in humanities was established by trustee spence l. wilson, his wife rebecca webb wilson, and the kemmons wilson familymatters of record https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/311 22 of 85 7/25/23, 12:56 pm foundation. the t. k. young professorship of english literature was established by idlewild presbyterian church in 1955 in honor of their senior minister. dr. leslie petty, associate professor of english, currently holds the young chair. special funds the frank and marjo benton student travel fund was created in 2012 by marjo and frank benton p'13 to support math and computer science students when they attend professional meetings and conferences. the booth cody dortch quinn endowment for the humanities was created in 2013 by joan and john quinn '58. the endowment will help bring nationally recognized leaders to campus to create special learning opportunities that will provide the foundation for community-wide dialogue. the boyle endowment for the study of liberal democracy was provided in 2008 by trustee j. bayard boyle, jr. and his family. it is housed in the department of political science to encourage and support teaching and research concerning the nature of constitutional government and the sources, principles, and practice of the institution of liberal democracy. the rosanna cappellato memorial fund was established in 2013 through the estate of rosanna capellato and gifts from her friends. the charles p. cobb '44 endowment for music , established in 2011 through his estate, provides discretionary funding for the music department to be used with the approval of the dean of the faculty. the cobb endowment may provide student fellowships or other support for the teaching and learning of music. the crain family counseling support fund was established to benefit student counseling at rhodes in order to meet the emotional needs of our students. the mike curb institute for music was founded in 2006 by mike and linda curb through the mike curb family foundation to foster awareness and understanding of the distinct musical traditions of the south and to study the effect music has had on its culture, history, and economy. through the areas of preservation, research, leadership, and civic responsibility, the institute provides support for faculty and facilitates opportunities for students to experience learning outside the classroom in partnership with the community. the pete ekstrom faculty development fund in anthropology and sociology was established in 2006 by an anonymous alumna. it will provide support for faculty to direct and mentor a student, pursue collaborative research, or develop enhancements to theirmatters of record https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/311 23 of 85 7/25/23, 12:56 pm programs. the chair of the department will determine the use of these funds. the jack d. farris visiting writers series was established in 2002 by a bequest from the kathleen mcclain '74 as a memorial to her beloved teacher, mentor and friend, professor jack d. farris. each year the department of english will host published writers for readings and lectures. the julia johnson garrett '01 library collection endowment was established in her honor by her parents, edith h. and james r. garrett, in 2001. funds from the endowment are used to purchase rare or other books in the field of art history, rare or other books in the field of religious studies, books in the field of early childhood education, or if there is no need in those areas, where the need is greatest. the gerber-taylor fund was created by meg and charles gerber in 2010 to provide funding for four years which will support student fellowships, programming, and staff in the rhodes learning corridor. the gerber-taylor fund will be used to provide an afterschool enhancement program and a community garden for nutritional education at the promise academy in the learning corridor. the martin-kragh faculty development fund for biology and chemistry was established in 2006 by former rhodes trustee j. stephen martin and his late wife, nancy kragh martin, parents of stuart '08, to provide support for faculty in biology and chemistry to direct and mentor a student, pursue collaborative research, or develop enhancements to their programs. the michaelcheck endowment for faculty support was created in 2000 by rhodes board chair william j. michaelcheck '69 and his wife pam to provide funds for travel by faculty members to support their research and other academic endeavors. the julian c. nall '43 and family endowment for faculty support was established in 2011 by julian c. nall '43 and his family. it supports faculty professional development to help achieve career goals and better mentor students. the herta and walter nelson library fund was created by professor michael nelson in 1992 and named in honor of his parents. the fund was established to purchase faculty authored books for the paul barret, jr. library collection. the overend endowment for film studies was created through the generosity of an alumnus in 2001. it provides support for guest speakers, films, books, and equipment purchases related to film studies. the iris a. pearce shakespeare endowment was established in 2007 through the estate of dr. pearce '42. the endowment is used to enhance and enrich courses in shakespeare, to provide guest speakers or visiting shakespeare scholars and to fundmatters of record https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/311 24 of 85 7/25/23, 12:56 pm research in the teaching of shakespeare. the rhodes athletic equipment fund was established in 2013 in honor of mike clary '77 by dr. and mrs. james h. daughdrill. rhodes cares (center for academic research and education through service) , funded by a $6 million grant from the robert and ruby priddy charitable trust of wichita falls, texas, exists to strengthen undergraduate research and service tied to scholarship. the center encompasses programs such as rhodes institute for regional studies, rhodes st. jude summer plus research program, and rhodes learning corridor. it also provides aid to students who have demonstrated experience in and commitment to community service. the richardson endowment for the arts was established by the late kathleen richardson in 2007. it provides support for arts programs that foster leadership, vision, communications and innovation for future leaders in the fine arts. the james r. riedmeyer collection was established in 1987 by mr. riedmeyer, then senior vice president, federal express corporation. it is used to purchase books and periodicals in aviation, transportation, and communication. the riley discretionary endowment for barret library was created in 1998 by dr. robert i. bourne, jr. '54 and anne riley bourne '54 in loving memory of rev. robert quitman riley, class of 1894 (anne’s grandfather); john riley, class of 1926 (anne’s father); and maclin broadnax riley, class of 1930 (anne’s uncle). it provides funds to be used at the discretion of the director of barret library. the charles robertson '65 endowment for student research and engagement in physics was established in 2007 by charles robertson '65 to support research fellowships for students to work with rhodes physics faculty. it will also support the students in activities that will engage them in the physics community and the community at large. recipients are selected through an annual competitive application process. the jack u. russell collection was established in 1986 in his memory by his son mark russell. the russell collection is used to enhance the mathematics collection in honor of dr. russell's service at rhodes as professor of mathematics 1954-1981. the ruyl family fellowship in global history is the department of history's premier experience for students majoring in history. it was established by marci mctier to allow a rising junior or senior to explore any aspect of global history, broadly defined. the herb smith endowment was established in 2010 to support meeman center classes that had been taught by herb smith, most notably “the art of conscious living.” the paul snodgrass '46 endowment for the arts was established through his estate. it provides support for the arts programs that foster leadership, vision, communications andmatters of record https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/311 25 of 85 7/25/23, 12:56 pm innovation for future leaders in the fine arts. the helen stauffer memorial library fund was established in 2006 to provide funds to benefit the paul barret, jr. library. the irma sternberg faculty support fund in american history was established in 2009 through the estate of irma sternberg to support research and teaching in american history. the lynne and henry turley memphis center includes a range of institutes, programs and initiatives focused on the human experience of the memphis and mid-south region. the white family regional studies endowment was created in 2007 through a bequest of john white '67. it supports students studying history through the rhodes institute for regional studies. students selected for this opportunity are chosen through a competitive proposal process reviewed by the faculty of the institute. the spence wilson faculty support in religious studies endowment was established in 2012 by spence l. wilson, former chair and current member of the rhodes board of trustees. the recipient is dr. steven l. mckenzie. art collections the robert i. and anne riley bourne collection was given in 1998 by the bournes, both members of the class of 1954. the photographic prints represent the work of distinguished photographer edward j. curtis and document life of native americans in the pacific northwest, circa 1905. selected prints are periodically displayed in the clough- hanson gallery and are used for teaching. the jessie l. clough art memorial for teaching was given to rhodes in 1953 by sisters floy and etta hanson in memory of their friend and first art teacher. the collection of asian woodcut prints, porcelains, fabrics, and other objects forms the basis of the college's teaching collection. selected objects are periodically displayed in the clough- hanson gallery. the dorothy seymour harnden collection in north american native art was given to rhodes in 1990 in her memory by her husband, the late robert c. harnden. the harnden collection is on permanent display in halliburton tower and buckman hall. the harvey a. pankin collection was given in his memory by his son jayson d. pankin of michigan in 1997. the prints, dating from 1960-80, document many of the styles or movements of those decades, including op art, hard-edged abstractions, figurative art, and photo-realism. selected prints are periodically displayed in the clough-hanson gallery and are used for teaching.matters of record https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/311 26 of 85 7/25/23, 12:56 pm awards the louise and ward archer, sr. award for creativity , given by his late wife and his children, recognizes the student selected as having demonstrated the most creativity at rhodes. the award honors the memory of ward archer, sr. '39, founder of ward archer & associates, now the public relations firm archer/malmo, and his wife louise thompson archer '44, whose early career was in the advertising field in new york. the mac armour physics fellows were established in 2015 in memory of mac armour '16 by meri and donald armour. the anne howard bailey '45 prize for creative writing was established by the estate of anne howard bailey '45 in 2009 and given annually for excellence and merit in creative writing. the j. allen boone '71 award was established in 2013 by dr. and mrs. james h. daughdrill. it is awarded to the most outstanding student in accounting. the william bruce '11 award for outstanding paper in art history was created in 2013 by louise and mike bruce p'11 in memory of their son. this award is determined based on the review of student papers each spring by the art history faculty. the pam church master of accounting award is given annually to the masters of accounting student-of-the-year, in honor of former rhodes faculty member pam church. the ruth moore cobb award in instrumental music was established by the late trustee charles p. cobb '44 in honor of his wife. the award is presented annually to the outstanding student instrumentalist in the music department as judged by the music faculty. the estelle r. cone award is given annually to that student selected for outstanding service in an individual project through the kinney program. the award is in memory of mrs. cone, who was kinney program director from its founding until 1975. the charlie cook award for excellence in political science was established in 2013 by lucy and charlie cook p'08. the scholarship is awarded to a senior who shows excellence in political science. the j. hal daughdrill award was established in 1986 by friends of rhodes with memorial gifts to remember the eighteenth president's father. the award goes to the most valuable player of the football team. the clarence day award for outstanding teaching , established in 1981 by the late clarence c. day '52 of memphis, is given annually to a full-time member of the teaching faculty at rhodes to recognize excellence in teaching.matters of record https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/311 27 of 85 7/25/23, 12:56 pm the dean’s award for outstanding research and creative activity was established by the late clarence c. day '52 of memphis in 1981 to recognize a rhodes faculty member for significant research and/or creative activity which has been brought to fruition in a public form, e.g. scholarly writing, public performances. the cbiz mhm accounting awards previously known as the thompson dunavant plc accounting awards were established by thompson dunavant plc in 2008. one award is given each year to an outstanding junior majoring in commerce and business to provide financial aid during the senior year. a second award is given to an outstanding senior majoring in commerce and business who will enter and use the award for financial aid in the rhodes' masters of science in accounting program the academic year immediately after graduation. the theodore william eckels international business internships were established in 2010 by his wife betty eckels, her son rick eckels '70 and her daughter-in-law, rhodes trustee laila adams eckels '71. this internship outside the u.s. at an international business is restricted to deserving rising juniors and seniors majoring in commerce and business or economics with relevant foreign language skills. the garrott award was established in honor of thomas m. garrott, iii. chosen by the political economy faculty members, this award recognizes a student who has demonstrated excellence in political economy. the donald j. gattas memorial award is given annually to the student judged to be most outstanding in middle eastern studies. the rebecca rish gay most outstanding female athlete of the year award was established in 1996 by dr. and mrs. james h. daughdrill, jr. in memory of her mother. the walter e. gay most oustanding male athlete of the year award was established in 1996 by dr. and mrs. james h. daughdrill, jr. in honor of her father. the mel grinspan award for the outstanding intern was established in honor of the late mel g. grinspan, professor emeritus of economics. the award recognizes a student who exemplifies excellence in achieving significant and measurable credit within the internship program. the sally becker grinspan award for artistic achievement was established during his lifetime by professor emeritus mel g. grinspan to honor his wife. it is presented each year to a student majoring in art who produces that piece of art, in any medium, which is selected by a committee of artists and/or art curators as an outstanding creation. the michael e. hendrick '67 award in organic chemistry was established in his memory by his wife martha s. laurie '69 and their friends. it provides a summer stipend formatters of record https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/311 28 of 85 7/25/23, 12:56 pm outstanding students to conduct research in the field of organic chemistry. the ralph c. hon leadership award recognizes a senior commerce and business major who has the highest achievement in the area of leadership. the hunter award for excellence in neuroscience was established in 2006 through the estate of arthur w. and doris b. hunter to recognize graduating neuroscience majors, who have been accepted into a graduate program in neuroscience or a related field, and who have excelled in the classroom and laboratory. the wasfy b. iskander international internship in economics was provided by family and friends of the late economics professor. it provides an internship experience outside the u.s. for a rising senior majoring in economics. the jameson m. jones award for outstanding faculty service continues a practice of recognizing faculty service first started by the charles e. diehl society in 1988. the award, which honors a current faculty member who has rendered exemplary service and provided leadership to the rhodes community, was provided in 2005 by rhodes alumnus and trustee, john d. gladney '74. dr. jameson m. jones '36 served as professor of moral philosophy and dean of the college from 1955 to 1971. the jane donaldson kepple writing prizes are awarded annually to four students for excellence in writing as judged by a committee of faculty members. the awards are given in four categories: freshman english essay; senior english essay; poetry, fiction, and drama; and scholarly essay. these prizes were established in 1985 by thomas r. kepple, jr. in memory of his wife. the rose & solly korsakov psychology award was provided by allan b. korsakov '64 to honor his parents’ memory, foresight, wisdom, and sacrifices for their two sons. the korsakov award recognizes an outstanding student in the field of psychology. the morelle legg international internship for women provides international internship opportunities with preference given to female economics or commerce and business majors. the george lapides sportsmanship award was established in 2014 by various donors. it will be awarded every spring at the rhodes athletic banquet to the senior athlete who best exemplifies highest level of sportsmanship. the colonel david henry likes international studies award was established in honor of colonel likes by vernon m. lester and is granted to an outstanding junior majoring in international studies. the freeman c. marr track and field award is presented annually to the outstandingmatters of record https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/311 29 of 85 7/25/23, 12:56 pm athlete who best exemplifies dedication to the principles of scholarship and athletics. this award honors freeman c. marr '48: athlete, scholar, coach and dedicated alumnus of the college. the cynthia marshall award was created in 2005 by family and friends of professor cynthia marshall. the award is given to the most deserving senior majoring in english who is pursuing graduate studies in any field in the humanities. the robert d. mccallum competitive enterprise award was established by dr. ben. w. bolch, professor emeritus of economics and business administration, in honor of the late robert d. mccallum, a trustee of the college. it is awarded annually to a student who is deemed to have carried out the most significant entrepreneurial activity while at rhodes. the mollie royall mccord memorial prize in bible was established by a bequest from mollie r. mccord '36. it goes to a senior or rising senior who has shown promise in this area and is interested in a career as a church minister, missionary or medical missionary. the susan tidball means award was created in 1991 to be awarded to a junior student and to assist in underwriting a project in women's studies. the fred neal freshman prize is awarded to the outstanding student in the interdisciplinary course, “the search for values in the light of western history and religion.” it was established by friends of professor neal during his lifetime. the lynn nettleton prize was created by lynn n. and olive allen hughes in memory of his grandfather and in honor of their daughter, dixon presswood schultz '83. it is awarded to the senior who has written the year's most outstanding paper in economics or business. the memphis panhellenic association , in its desire to encourage scholarship, presents an award to the sorority woman of the graduating class at rhodes college having the highest scholastic average for her entire college career. the john planchon award for excellence in commerce and business was established in 2013 by dr. and mrs. james h. daughdrill. it is awarded to the most outstanding student in business and commerce. the marcus d. pohlmann award in political science and mock trial was established in 2019 in honor of professor marcus pohlmann upon his retirement. the purpose of this annual award is to recognize outstanding senior student achievement in political science and mock trial. the peyton nalle rhodes phi beta kappa award was created by members of the rhodes chapter of phi beta kappa. the margaret r. & rudolf r. ruyl award for religious studies was established in 1996 bymatters of record https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/311 30 of 85 7/25/23, 12:56 pm the ruyl family fund in memory of margaret f. ′61 & rudolf r. ruyl. this annual award supports faculty development. the jack u. russell awards in mathematics were established by friends of professor jack russell of rhodes. they are awarded to outstanding mathematics students selected by the department of mathematics and computer science. the jane hyde scott awards , established by a bequest from jane hyde scott '30, are given to rising seniors for special academic activities in the summer prior to the senior year. five awards are given annually: the robert allen scott award in mathematics, the joseph reeves hyde award in religious studies, the ruth sherman hyde award in music, the margaret ruffin hyde award in psychology, and the w. o. shewmaker memorial fund was established by alumni and friends in memory of dr. w. o. shewmaker, professor of bible at rhodes 1925-41. the income from this fund is used annually for an award of books to the student who attains the highest distinction in the interdisciplinary course, “the search for values in the light of western history and religion.” the ida leblanc “lee” smith foreign studies award was established in her memory by her family, friends and classmates. lee '05 is remembered for her enhancement of her rhodes experience through participation in the college's british studies at oxford program. this award helps to fund a study abroad opportunity for a student who might not otherwise be financially able to undertake such study. the spencer prizes in greek were established in memory of mr. h. n. spencer, port gibson, mississippi. they are awarded to those students in each class who attain the highest distinction. in addition, a prize is awarded to the student who has attained the highest absolute, not merely relative, grade during four years of greek courses. the algernon sydney sullivan award s, a medallion and certificate provided by the new york southern society of the city of new york, are awarded to the man and woman students of the graduating class and to one outstanding citizen of the community who best exemplify mr. sullivan’s ideals of excellence in character and service to humanity. the jeanne scott varnell award in classical languages . the spence wilson faculty international travel fund was established in 2007 by the kemmons wilson family foundation in honor of rhodes trustee spence l. wilson. the funds will be used to fund faculty international travel opportunities including but not limited to conducting research outside the u.s.; collaborating with colleagues from throughout the world; traveling to retool or expand our curriculum; presenting papers at international conferences; and taking students abroad.matters of record https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/311 31 of 85 7/25/23, 12:56 pm the rob wolcott '93 endowed internship was provided by family and friends to support an internship at the church health center in recognition of rob's commitment to service and health care for the poor and homeless. the li xiuying memorial award for chinese language excellence was established by professor han li and stephen ceccoli. the award recognizes a student who excels in studying the chinese language. scholarships and fellowships the following listing of scholarships and fellowships is provided for informational purposes to showcase the rich scope of opportunities at rhodes and to honor the generous benefactors who have provided these scholarships and fellowships. please refer to the financial aid application procedures if you are interested in pursuing scholarship assistance at rhodes. you should be aware that not every scholarship is available every year. many of the scholarships listed here are renewable and are retained by the chosen recipients throughout their four years at rhodes. you can be confident, however, that each aid applicant is automatically considered for every available scholarship and fellowship for which s/he qualifies. the 100 club of memphis scholarship was endowed by the 100 club of memphis to assist memphis and shelby county law enforcement officers, firefighters, and their immediate family members. the george i. alden trust scholarship was funded by a challenge grant from the george i. alden trust and gifts from alumni and friends of the college. it is used for general scholarship aid for students with need. the elizabeth alley ahlgren art scholarship was established in 1987 by dr. frank r. ahlgren of memphis in honor of his wife for worthy students interested in painting or sculpture. the emerson a. and emily peale alburty scholarships were established by mr. and mrs. alburty of memphis during their lifetimes. selection of the scholarship recipients is based primarily on financial need and preference will be given to memphis and shelby county residents. the mary orme amis scholarships for women were established by family members to honor their mother and are awarded to deserving female students. the catherine d. anderson scholarship was established by the late ms. anderson of hughes, arkansas. the walter p. armstrong, sr. memorial scholarship was established by dr. walter p.matters of record https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/311 32 of 85 7/25/23, 12:56 pm armstrong, jr., the law firm of armstrong allen, and friends. the a. l. aydelott students memorial scholarship fund was established by his daughter, the late mrs. josephine a. johnson, memphis. the mary lowry bacon scholarship was established by her son, henry w. bacon, and her granddaughter, barbara b. henderson. it is awarded to a student of religion. the john w. baird m.d. and florence d. baird scholarship was established in 1999 by florence baird '40. it provides aid to deserving students with demonstrated financial need. the minnie lee hamer bales '35 scholarship for the arts was created in 2010 through her estate. it provides support for arts programs that foster leadership, vision, communications and innovation for future leaders in the fine arts. the dr. leon t. banakas '53 scholarship was established by mrs. frances mellen- banakas in memory of her husband. it provides aid to deserving pre-medical students on the basis of academic promise and ability. the albert d. banta scholarships provide for rhodes college one-third of the income from a trust created by the late albert d. banta, shreveport, louisiana. the donna lorraine barlett scholarship , created by alumna ms. barlett '80, gives preference to students with financial need who are in foster care or who are from a single- parent household. the frank g. barton scholarship fund was established by his wife, the late mrs. pauline c. barton, memphis. the james h. and carol p. barton international study fellowship was established by rhodes trustee james h. barton in 2006. it provides financial aid for deserving students who desire to study abroad. recipients are selected by competitive application. the adam p. beeler christian service with youth scholarship was established by the family and friends of the late adam beeler '99. the scholarship is to be awarded to a deserving junior or senior who has demonstrated a commitment to christian service in an under-resourced environment with preference given to students who have been active with streets ministries and/or the neighborhood school. the bellingrath fellowships were established through the will of walter d. bellingrath. consideration is by nomination only and the bellingrath scholars are chosen based on their academic and extracurricular records and an interview by a scholarship selection committee. the bellsouth mobility scholarship was provided by bellsouth mobility, now merged intomatters of record https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/311 33 of 85 7/25/23, 12:56 pm at&t, for a deserving student with demonstrated financial need. preference is given to students from memphis. the francis b. and mildred benton scholarship was established in 2006 through the estate of francis b. benton '36 to aid deserving students participating in the center for outreach in the development of the arts at rhodes. the program fosters leadership, vision, communications and innovation for future leaders in the arts. the jacque hammett betts and margarette h. wurtsbaugh scholarship was established by the late mrs. betts, and mr. and mrs. alfred d. wilhelm of little rock, in memory of these sisters who were mrs. wilhelm's aunts. the herman w. bevis scholarship was created and later endowed in her lifetime by the late mrs. jenny lyde bevis in memory of her husband, herman bevis '30. the winton and carolyn blount service scholarship was provided in 2005 by the estate of winton m. blount, chair of rhodes' board of trustees 1988-92. mr. blount was a former u.s. postmaster general and founder of blount, inc., an international construction firm based in montgomery, alabama. it provides financial aid for deserving students who have demonstrated experience and commitment to community service. the bonner foundation scholarships , funded by the corella and bertram f. bonner foundation, provide financial aid for deserving students who demonstrate experience and commitment to community service and have high financial need. each student receives a grant for financial aid, a stipend to substitute for work study aid, and a summer living allowance. the eleanor and millard bosworth scholarship was established in their memory by their daughter, the late eleanor bosworth shannon. it is awarded annually to students with need. the elizabeth bourne webb '81 & john riley bourne service scholarship was established by dr. and mrs. robert irl bourne, jr., members of the class of 1954. the scholarship is awarded to students who demonstrate interest and involvement in community service as an applicant to rhodes and while at rhodes commit to engage in approximately ten hours of weekly community service. the dr. robert irl and anne riley bourne scholarship was established by the bournes, both members of the class of 1954, to be awarded to deserving students on the basis of academic promise and ability. the helen m. bowld scholarship is awarded each year to a student of religion in grateful memory of miss helen m. bowld, a dedicated member of the college staff for many years. the j. bayard boyle, sr. scholarship was created by the late sam m. fleming of nashvillematters of record https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/311 34 of 85 7/25/23, 12:56 pm to honor the memory of his good friend. additional support was provided by joanne fleming hayes and toby s. wilt. it is awarded to a student with financial need. the arabia wooten brakefield '42 and betty mae wooten michael scholarship was established by their father, the late mr. hoyt b. wooten, memphis. the helen '51 and denby brandon '50 scholarship was established in 1999 by mr. and mrs. brandon in honor of their 50th class reunions. the theodore brent scholarship was established by mr. brent of new orleans. the c.a. and louise branyan fellowship was established in 2009 by carole louise branyan '67 in memory of her parents. this fellowship gives preference to female graduates from white station high school, memphis, tn who are of the presbyterian faith. the charles and helen branyan fellowship was created by carole louise branyan '67 in 2009 to honor the memory of her aunt and uncle. this fellowship gives preference to female graduates from white station high school, memphis, tn who are of the presbyterian faith. the leneil mccullough broach scholarship was funded through the estate of ms. leneil mccullough broach '29. the brown scholarship was established in 2006 by susan e. brown, parent of clark ruppert '10. the scholarship is awarded to residents of shelby county, tennessee, with demonstrated high financial need who have a willingness to be engaged in activities at rhodes and who have potential for academic success. the c. whitney brown scholarship was established by friends and family of the late c. whitney brown to provide assistance to economically disadvantaged shelby county students, not otherwise able to attend rhodes, sponsored by any memphis organization dedicated to improving the future of memphis youths. preference is given to memphis boys club/girls club members. the enoch brown scholarship , established by the late mrs. enoch brown, franklin, tennessee, in memory of her husband, is awarded to students from shelby county or williamson county, tennessee. the jean brown scholarship was established through a bequest from the late miss jean brown of hot springs, arkansas. the l. palmer brown iii service scholarship was founded in 2004 by axson and bryan morgan in honor of l. palmer brown. this scholarship is awarded based on merit and financial need.matters of record https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/311 35 of 85 7/25/23, 12:56 pm the robert l. brown scholarship was provided through the estate of alumnus robert l. brown '35. the s. toof brown scholarship was established by whit brown in memory of his father. the w. c. brown memorial scholarship was established by the children of the late william clark brown, sr., stamps, arkansas. the bradley brubaker '97 endowed scholarship is intended for a student from memphis/shelby county, preferably with financial need, and a gpa of 3.0 or higher. the john h. bryan scholarship was established during his lifetime by the late john h. bryan, sr., west point, mississippi, founder of bryan foods. the louise and john bryan fellowship for the arts was established in 2007 by trustee john h. bryan iii '83 and his wife louise. it provides support for arts programs that foster leadership, vision, communications and innovation for future leaders in the fine arts. the annie rose and leslie h. buchman scholarship was established by southern fabricators, inc., mr. paul isbell, and the late mrs. buchman of memphis. the mertie w. buckman international scholarships for women are awarded annually to deserving junior and senior students with financial need to participate in rhodes- sponsored programs abroad or in rhodes' exchange programs. preference is given to women students. the robert buckman scholarships for study abroad were established in 2003 by rhodes trustee robert h. buckman and his wife joyce mollerup to enable qualified students to study abroad, either for a semester or for a complete academic year, and to then participate in the development of international awareness at rhodes upon their return. buckman scholars must have completed at least two semesters at rhodes at the time of the award and preference will be given to juniors or rising juniors. demonstrated financial need may be a consideration in the granting of these scholarships. these scholarships are not available to students applying for summer program study. for more information, contact the buckman center for international programs. the stanley joseph and mertie willigar buckman scholarship was established by the late mrs. buckman to support students with need. the buntyn presbyterian church scholarship was established to provide assistance to a student from tennessee. the chloe malone burch service scholarship was created in 2010 through her estate. it provides financial aid for deserving students who have demonstrated experience in and commitment to community service.matters of record https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/311 36 of 85 7/25/23, 12:56 pm the mary ross burkhart scholarship was established in 2013 by pedie pedersen '70 to honor former rhodes professor mary ross “tara” burkhart. the catherine w. burrow scholarship was established by the late mrs. burrow of memphis. the kathryn brown butler emergency assistance fund was established in 2011 by the kathryn brown butler family foundation. it provides emergency aid beyond the normal financial aid to students who are active and successful members of the rhodes community and demonstrate a need for emergency assistance. the betty calandruccio scholarship , established by mrs. calandruccio in memory of dr. peyton nalle rhodes, president emeritus of the college, provides financial aid with preference given to female students who demonstrate financial need. the anne s. caldwell '51 business fellowship is intended for juniors and seniors with an academic major in business and/or economics. the samuel craighead caldwell memorial scholarship was established by first presbyterian church, hazlehurst, mississippi. the cardwell family scholarship was set up by the cardwell family to support the financial aid needs of rhodes students. the wheeler carleton scholarship was established in 1947 by the women of the church of the synod of alabama. preference is given to a presbyterian student from alabama. the dr. and mrs. herbert v. carson scholarship was established by mr. and mrs. herbert v. carson, jr. of houston in memory of his parents. the katherine carter service scholarship was established in 2006 by thomas l. carter, jr. and eugenia graves carter, parents of katherine '05. it is awarded to students who demonstrate financial need as well as experience with and commitment to community service. the christine barham caruthers service scholarship was established in 2006 through the estate of christine barham caruthers. it is awarded to students who demonstrate experience in and commitment to community service. the fay rye caudle scholarship for the arts was established by scott rye '83 and ruth metcalfe rye '84 in 2007. it provides support for arts programs that foster leadership, vision, communications and innovation for future leaders in the fine arts. the cbjr foundation emergency assistance fund was provided in 2013 by the cbjr foundation to provide support to students who find themselves in emergency financialmatters of record https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/311 37 of 85 7/25/23, 12:56 pm need. the walter chandler scholarship was established by citizens of memphis in honor of the former mayor of memphis. the chapman service scholarship was established in 2005 by christopher j. chapman and mary beth blackwell-chapman, parents of molly '05. it provides financial aid for deserving students who have demonstrated financial need as well as experience with and commitment to community service. the alice s. christenson scholarship was created in her honor by her son, gray stevens '82 and his wife allison. it benefits students of high academic ability with demonstrated financial need. preference is given to students from alabama. the anna marie clark '12 fellowship was established in 2012 by ed clark p'12 in honor of his daughter. the scholarship will provide support for one student's four years at rhodes, provided s/he maintains satisfactory grades, carries a full-time course load, and takes advantage of at least one beyond-the-classroom learning opportunity that furthers his/her academic or career interests. the class of 1950 scholarship was provided by alumni of the class of 1950 in honor of their 50th class reunion in october, 2000. the john colby service scholarship was established in barry johnson '83 and susanna johnson in 2007 to support students with demonstrated financial need and commitment to community service and leadership. the jefferson k. cole scholarship was established by the late mrs. anna p. cole of memphis in memory of her husband. the elizabeth williams cooper '30 scholarship was established by the late mr. and mrs. a. b. cooper of nashville in appreciation of the education that rhodes provided mrs. cooper. the james leonard cooper scholarship was established by his late daughter, miss lula w. cooper. the mrs. john s. cooper memorial scholarship was established by mr. douglas johnston of memphis in memory of his mother. the john franklin copper '75 award for excellence in the study of asia was established by retired rhodes professor and alumnus john f. copper '75. the award honors a student who has embraced the challenging and rigorous curriculum of the international studies department.matters of record https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/311 38 of 85 7/25/23, 12:56 pm the cotham family scholarship was established to provide support for a dedicated, involved student. the john h. '57 and patricia crabtree endowed scholarship is awarded to a student with financial need. the robert emmet craig scholarship was established by his late wife, mrs. robert e. craig, and his daughters, mrs. amelia craig lane and mrs. samuel sanders iii, new orleans, louisiana. the serena crawford scholarship for women was initiated by alumnae sallie brooks clark '76, donna kay fisher '71, katherine maddox mcelroy '77, carol ellis morgan '76, and sara jeannette sims '76 in memory of their friend serena '75. it provides assistance to women students with financial need. the jere lawrence crook, jr. scholarship was established by a generous gift of the late mr. crook, prominent memphis real estate developer, world traveler and civic leader. preference is given to international students. the patsy braswell culverhouse '54 scholarship was created in her memory by her husband cecil culverhouse and their sons ian and rob. the scholarship benefits a young woman who would not be able to attend rhodes without financial aid. the curran-lydick scholarship was established in 2013 by chrissy and walter lydick ’68 .the scholarship is designed to challenge and graduate talented students from middle income families. the james and elizabeth daughdrill scholarship was established in 2014 by robert h. buckman and joyce a. mollerup. the scholarship will be awarded to a worthy student with need who has overcome significant obstacles on their path college. the ellen davies-rodgers scholarshi p in early elementary education was established by the late dr. ellen davies-rodgers. this scholarship is presented to an outstanding student with special interest in early elementary education. the dan w. davis service scholarship was provided in 2005 through the estate of dan w. davis of memphis. it provides financial aid for deserving students who have demonstrated experience and commitment to community service. the jefferson davis scholarship was established by the late jefferson davis and his widow, jerdone, of atlanta, georgia, both alumni of the college, classes of 1931 and 1934. mr. davis served for many years as a member of the board of trustees. the davison scholarship was established by mr. w. f. davison, misses ethel and marjory davison, and mrs. j. d. crosby in memory of their parents. preference is given to qualifiedmatters of record https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/311 39 of 85 7/25/23, 12:56 pm students from the area formerly known as the synod of alabama. the mary robertson day scholarship was established by the watauga chapter of daughters of the american revolution. the a. clark and mary cooper dean scholarship was established in 1992 to assist deserving students in receiving a liberal arts education. the dickson family scholarship is provided by the late dr. bonnie adair dickson, the late frederick l. dickson, jr. '38 and the late elizabeth blue dickson '39. the charles e. diehl scholarship was established from the estates of mrs. lula reese and erma reese solomon. the charles i. diehl scholarship was endowed by a bequest from charles i. diehl '31, who served as dean of men and professor of education for the college. it is awarded to a deserving student with demonstrated financial need. the diehl scholarship in voice was established in memory of mrs. christiana nolte diehl and mrs. katherine ireys diehl by members of the diehl family and friends. this scholarship is awarded to a student majoring in voice based on academic achievement. the katherine ireys diehl and mary pond diehl memorial scholarship was established at rhodes and supported through the generosity of katherine diehl's son, the late mr. charles i. diehl, and the association of rhodes women. the christina zengel dinkelacker memorial scholarship was funded by family and friends of christina '70. the scholarship goes to a deserving female student to enable her to study abroad with preference for programs in art, languages, and literature. the hugo dixon scholarship was established through a gift from the george h. mcfadden and bro. fund of memphis in memory of mr. dixon who was chairman of the board of valmac industries, patron of the arts in memphis and the mid-south, and business and civic leader. the elizabeth rodgers dobell scholarship was established through contributions from family members and friends in memory of elizabeth dobell '58. the f. elaine donelson '59 fellowship in psychology allows the department chair to create a fellowship in psychology. the janice ost donelson scholarship was created by family and friends in 2010 to honor the late wife of dr. lewis donelson '38. the joseph a. dunglinson scholarship was established by the first presbyterian churchmatters of record https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/311 40 of 85 7/25/23, 12:56 pm of selma, alabama, in honor of its minister. the dufour endowed scholarship is intended for students with demonstrated financial need. recipients will have achieved the rank of eagle scout, or have demonstrated all of the following: participation in a service organization for at least three years and have had a leadership position within that organization, responsibility for completion of an impactful service project for which the candidates have demonstrated leadership in planning, coordination, and completion of the project. recipients will demonstrate trustworthiness, kindness, and courage and show respect and reverence for matters of religious faith. the paul and frances durff scholarship was provided by judith simono durff '66 and thomas h. durff '65 to honor his parents. the scholarship is awarded to students with need from a memphis public school. the david burns and blanche butler earhart scholarship was established by mrs. blanche butler earhart of memphis. the john a. edmiston, jr. scholarship was established by his parents, mr. and mrs. john a. edmiston, sr. the j. s. and capitola edmondson scholarship was established by the late mr. and mrs. j. s. edmondson of memphis to aid worthy students. the john farley scholarship was established in 1990 upon his death by the family and friends of john farley '37, a noted lawyer in new york. the anna and jack d. farris scholarship was created by alumni couple mark '82 and elizabeth sheppard '84 hurley. it honors anna farris, former associate dean of the british studies at oxford program at rhodes, and the late jack farris, professor emeritus of english. the do ann johnson falk ’67 and canon thomas hall ’67 scholarship was established by meg and scott crosby in 2013 to honor meg’s aunts at their 50th reunion. the scholarship recipients will be chosen by the dean of admission and financial aid, with preference given to students who provide evidence that they would thrive in the rhodes environment. the joseph peyton faulk memorial fund was established by robert w. faulk in memory of his father to aid worthy students with need from tipton county, tennessee, who are pursuing a full-time course of study leading to a bachelors degree. the federal express scholarship was established by fedex corporation. the nancy tanner & james rodney feild scholarship was established by j. rodney feild. preference is given to pre-medical students with need who serve in a hospital ormatters of record https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/311 41 of 85 7/25/23, 12:56 pm clinic treating private patients. the files sisters memorial scholarship was established by the late miss r. m. files, shreveport, louisiana. the james o. finley '26 family scholarship , created by dr. james g. finley '62 and his wife mary lou carwile finley '64, provides financial aid with preference for students from middle tennessee. the first presbyterian church memorial scholarship was established by the first presbyterian church of gallatin, tennessee. the josie millsaps fitzhugh scholarship was established by the josephine circle of memphis, in honor of its founder, the late mrs. gutson t. fitzhugh, memphis. the sarah mackenzie flemister and robert c. flemister, jr. scholarship was established by the late mr. and mrs. robert c. flemister, jr. '26 of birmingham, alabama, for deserving students with need. the amy and cary fowler crossroads fellowship was established in 2014. students will collect and catalog historically important source materials which chronicle various aspects of the civil rights movement in the memphis area. the steve and riea lainoff crop trust fellowship in honor of cary fowler was established in 2012 by trustee steve lainoff and his wife, riea. this fellowship will be awarded to a senior to work for the global crop diversity trust for at least one year following graduation from rhodes college. the joseph a. and morgan c. fowler scholarship fund was established in 1957 with a gift from the freemasons. since then, the scholarship has grown through the generosity of the lillian goldman charitable trust, cary fowler '71, and amy goldman fowler. the scholarship honors cary's parents, and is awarded each year to a worthy student. the edgar wiggin francisco scholarship and the ruth bitzer francisco scholarship were established by dr. edgar wiggin francisco, iii '52 in honor of his father and mother. the fraser lagniappe scholarship fund provides scholarship assistance to a nontraditional age student with financial need. the freeburg scholarship for memphis students was established through a gift from the estate of catherine m. freeburg '40 and her husband charles freeburg '39. as lifelong, dedicated memphians, mr. and mrs. freeburg established the scholarship to support the financial aid needs of memphis students. the john chester frist memorial scholarship was created by his brother, the late dr.matters of record https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/311 42 of 85 7/25/23, 12:56 pm thomas c. frist, sr. '28, a rhodes trustee. john was a leader in many areas of campus life. he was a minister and leader in the presbyterian church until his death in 1959. the jennie puryear gardner scholarship was established in 2007 by mildred puryear marshall in honor of her sister, jennie puryear gardner '31. preference is given to women from the south with an interest in writing or literature. the t.m. garrott, jr. and lina h. garrott scholarship was created through their estates to assist deserving students from mississippi selected on the basis of academic promise and ability. their son, rhodes trustee thomas m. garrott, iii has increased the value of the garrott scholarship through additional gifts. the robert l. gay service scholarship was provided in 2005 through the estate of alumnus robert l. gay '62. it provides financial aid for deserving students who have demonstrated experience and commitment to community service. the mary snowden treadwell gee and elisha gee scholarship , established in mr. gee's memory by mrs. gee during her lifetime, recognizes the many outstanding rhodes college students who worked for mr. gee. the scholarship is awarded to students with need. the georgia scholarships , endowed by an anonymous foundation, provide assistance to students with recognized leadership potential from middle-income georgia families. preference is given to members of the christian faith. the german study abroad fellowship was established by an anonymous alumnus in 2008 to encourage students to adopt a minor or major in german and to learn the german culture. it is awarded to students who wish to study abroad in germany and have demonstrated financial need. the a. benson gilmore memorial service scholarship was created by rhodes trustee vicki gilmore palmer '75 in honor of dr. and mrs. james h. daughdrill, jr., president emeritus of the college and his wife, and in memory of ms. palmer's mother. it benefits minority students with financial need who have demonstrated experience in and commitment to community service. the sally pettus gold scholarship was established by dr. edward a. mohns of portland, oregon. the goldsmith family scholarship was established through a gift from the goldsmith foundation in memory of jacob and dora goldsmith. the c. m. gooch scholarships were established by the will of mr. c. m. gooch, prominent mid-south lumberman and businessman.matters of record https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/311 43 of 85 7/25/23, 12:56 pm the abe goodman memorial scholarship was established by his sons, charles, abe, and william goodman, memphis. the dan f. goodwin, jr. scholarship was given in honor of dan f. goodwin, jr., member of rhodes board of trustees for eight years. preference is given to children of ministers from the states of louisiana and texas and selection is based primarily on financial need. the margaret gorman scholarship was established by john f. gratz, jr., of memphis, to be given annually to that student who, in the judgment of the faculty of the music department, presents the greatest proficiency in the understanding and performance of the classical and romantic periods of music on the piano or to a deserving student majoring in music composition the lorle and neely grant scholarship was established by lorle grant, whose late husband, neely, was a member of rhodes class of 1946. the scholarship is awarded to minority students with need. the fred r. graves scholarship was established by friends of the late dr. graves, longtime presbyterian minister in mississippi, and by mr. and mrs. jere b. nash, jr., of greenville, mississippi. income from the fund is awarded each year on the basis of need and merit. the michael grehl scholarship was established in his memory by his late wife, audrey, scripps-howard, family, and friends, to support deserving returning students who have financial need beyond the college’s financial aid package. mr. grehl was editor of the commercial appeal, a scripps-howard newspaper. the hans and frances groenhoff scholarship for art and art history majors was established in memory of the world-famous photographer by his wife, the late fran groenhoff, and their friends. recipients are limited to those students majoring in art or art history. the charles e. guice scholarship was established by members of the j.j. white memorial church and the presbytery of south mississippi. the a. arthur halle memorial scholarship was established by trustees of the a. arthur halle memorial foundation, memphis. the james hamilton memorial political science scholarship was established in his memory by gifts from olivia meyer browne and is awarded to a deserving student. the rhonda and mark hammond ’79 scholarship was created by rhonda and mark hammond ’79 to support underrepresented populations in need of financial assistance with tuition and expenses.matters of record https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/311 44 of 85 7/25/23, 12:56 pm the hammond-moore scholarships were established by the late mark b. hammond, '39 and r. m. hammond, jr. in memory of their father, r. m. hammond, and dr. moore moore, both of memphis. the frank hardie '02 scholarship was established in his memory by elaine montgomery, frank's family and friends to support students with financial need who are well-rounded and who share frank's passion for learning, compassion for others, and effective leadership. the dorothy seymour harnden scholarship was established by the late robert c. harnden of memphis in memory of his wife. the ethel ashton harrell '54 scholarship , established by dr. harrell, gives preference to female students with documented financial need. the w. edwin harris scholarship was established through a gift from the estate of w. edwin harris. originally from wynne, arkansas, mr. harris settled in memphis following his retirement. he left a legacy of support for higher education in memphis, including rhodes. the hassell scholarship was provided through the estate of pauline hassell nicholson to assist students from or near wayne county, tennessee. the rev. robin r. and daniel b. hatzenbuehler summer ministry fellowship for social justice was established in 2010 by this alumni couple of the class of 1971. it is awarded by competitive application in which students describe their interest and past involvement in ministry and social justice, as well as their aspirations for the impact of the fellowship and a proposed placement or project. the william randolph hearst scholarship , created by the william randolph hearst foundation of new york, provides assistance to african-american students. the frank h. heiss scholarship fund , established by the new york city law firm of kelley drye & warren in memory of its distinguished law partner and 1928 alumnus of rhodes, is supported by his daughter. the imelda and hubert henkel scholarship was created in their memory by their four children, all of whom are rhodes graduates: mike '79 and frances '79 henkel, tim henkel '81, keith '83 and linda '83 henkel, and michelle henkel '86. the henley international student scholarship was created by elizabeth and robert henley to support the needs of international students attending rhodes. the j. d. and evelyn henry scholarship was established by the late mr. j. d. henry, selma, alabama, in grateful and loving memory of the family. his wife, the late evelynmatters of record https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/311 45 of 85 7/25/23, 12:56 pm henry, also provided support for this scholarship. the francis g. hickman scholarship was established by edwyna hickman, of memphis, as a memorial to her husband. preference is given to a student majoring, or intending to major, in the department of anthropology/sociology. the harold “chicken” high scholarship honors this outstanding 1933 graduate of rhodes and is funded by john s. and tan heslip hille, '69, '69. preference is given to an outstanding member of pi kappa alpha. the chick and andi hill service fellowship was created in 2007 to provide aid to a student from memphis with demonstrated financial need and commitment to community service and leadership. the beth bevill hollingsworth scholarship was established by her sons cyril e. hollingsworth '64 and donald m. hollingsworth '67 of little rock, arkansas. preference is given to a student with need. the david wills hollingsworth scholarship was established by the first presbyterian church, florence, alabama, to honor the memory of their longtime minister. scholarships are awarded on the basis of financial need, with preference to students from alabama. the emily how holloway scholarship was established in her memory by her husband, the late e. thompson holloway, sr. '33, and children emily h. walker '64, and e. thompson holloway, jr. the james elmore holmes, m.d. and ida lester scruggs holmes scholarship is awarded to first-generation students from either mississippi or tennessee, with demonstrated financial need and a gpa of 3.0 or higher. the elizabeth hart and horace king houston memorial scholarship was established by the reverend horace k. houston, jr. this scholarship is given to an active member of a presbyterian church who is a resident of essex county, new jersey; washington county, mississippi; or shelby county, tennessee. the gabriel and mattie houston scholarship was established in 1955 by the late mrs. houston of oxford, mississippi. the margaret mason jones houts and j. thayer “toto” houts scholarship was established by the late mr. j. thayer houts '37 and his late wife, mrs. margaret mason jones houts '40 of memphis. the dave and amy howe endowed scholarship was established in 2016 by amy and dave howe '83 p'19. this scholarship is awarded to students with financial need and selected on the basis of academic achievement and promise.matters of record https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/311 46 of 85 7/25/23, 12:56 pm the elizabeth j. howard scholarship was established by t. c. howard of covington, tennessee, in 1937. the s. francis howard scholarship was established in 1979 by an anonymous donor in memory of mr. s. francis howard '26. the thomas percy howard, jr. memorial scholarship was established by members of the first presbyterian church of tunica, mississippi. the john c. hugon scholarship was established by the late john c. hugon '77 of duncan, oklahoma, during his lifetime to provide financial assistance to deserving students, perhaps in addition to that normally provided by the college. additional funding was provided by mccasland foundation, as well as family and friends. the hunt senior endowed scholarship is awarded to a senior with demonstrated need, who carries a full-time class load and who is on track to graduate at the end of their senior year. the joanne e. hunt memorial scholarship was established by mr. and mrs. george b. jones in memory of mrs. jones' daughter, an alumna of rhodes, class of 1960. the kristin d. and vernon s. hurst scholarship for european studies , established by alumna kristin dwelle hurst '88 and her husband vernon, provides aid for a rhodes student participating in european studies. the margaret hyde council international scholarship for women was established by the members of the margaret hyde council to aid students in study abroad opportunities. it is also supported by alumnae and friends of rhodes. preference is given to women students. the margaret hyde leadership scholarship was created by margaret hyde council board members theresa cloys carl '75, susan logan huffman '83, and joellyn forrester sullivan '77. it gives preference to upperclass women who have demonstrated leadership in campus organizations, community service, or academics. the wendy and bill jacoway scholarship was created by alumnus william h. jacoway '62 and his wife wendy. the sarah elizabeth farris and thomas francis jackson scholarship was established by mrs. elizabeth jackson hall and her son, t. francis jackson, iii '62. the reverend william nathan jenkins scholarship was established by his wife, the late pearl c. jenkins and his daughter, miss annie tait jenkins of crystal springs, mississippi, to honor mr. jenkins, a presbyterian minister and a member of rhodes class of 1895.matters of record https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/311 47 of 85 7/25/23, 12:56 pm the jane and j. l. jerden service scholarship was established by jane and j. l. jerden '59 of atlanta, georgia. it provides aid to students who have demonstrated experience in and commitment to community service. the johnson family scholarship , created by alumnus barry johnson '83 and his wife susanna johnson, gives preference for aid to a student who exhibits an interest in religious studies as a major or entering full-time christian ministry following graduation. the george r. johnson service scholarship , was created by susanna johnson in 2005 as a gift to her husband, barry d. johnson '83, to honor his father who dedicated his life to serving others. the scholarship provides aid to students who have demonstrated experience in and commitment to community service. the marshall p. jones '59 scholarship , funded through a bequest from lawrence & carrie jaseph, honors their late son-in-law and rhodes professor emeritus. it is awarded to a student with financial need with preference given to a minority student. mr. jones’ widow, lynn jaseph jones '59, also provides support for this scholarship. the paul tudor jones, m.d., scholarship and the annie m. smith jones scholarship were established by the jones family in memory of their parents. the walk c. jones, jr. scholarship was established by mrs. walk c. jones, jr. of memphis. the paul tudor jones iii and sara shelton jones scholarship was established to honor the memory of his parents by the estate of the late paul tudor jones iv '32, life trustee. primary emphasis for selection of the recipients is based upon the student’s genuine religious nature and integrity of character. the henry m. and lena meyer kahn scholarship was created through the will of jacob m. meyer of memphis. the estes kefauver memorial scholarships were endowed by friends of senator kefauver, united states representative, 1938-1948, and united states senator, 1949-1963. the edward b. klewer scholarship was established by dorothy hughes klewer in memory of her husband. the hope brewster krushkov memorial scholarship in music , created by her daughter marli krushkova, is awarded to a student in music. the riea and steve lainoff fellowship was established in 2010 by trustee steve lainoff and his wife riea. it is awarded annually to ten or more students through a competitive application process which includes a brief discussion of how the proposed domestic or international fellowship will advance the student’s experiential learning. preference ismatters of record https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/311 48 of 85 7/25/23, 12:56 pm given to juniors and seniors with at least two fellowships reserved for each of the theatre and english departments. the joseph s. legg memorial service scholarship was established in 2005 by rhodes trustee deborah legg craddock '80 and robert e. craddock, jr. it provides financial aid for deserving students who have demonstrated financial need as well as experience with and commitment to community service. the edward b. and elizabeth lemaster scholarship was provided in memory of her parents by trustee elizabeth lemaster simpson '58 and her late husband david l. simpson, iii '58. it is awarded annually to students with financial need to participate in rhodes-sponsored european studies, in rhodes' exchange programs, or approved programs in the u.s. the jackie & herbert s. liebman and marjorie liebman scholarship was given by the liebmans to provide aid for a student from shelby county with financial need. the herbert linville scholarship was established by class of 1950 alumni herbert linville to support students deserving rhodes students. the cornelia loper lipscomb music scholarship was established by edward l. lipscomb of memphis, father of nell lipscomb martin and alumnae martha lipscomb whitla '57 and lynda lipscomb wexler '60, in memory of his wife and their mother. preference is given to a female music student from a southern state. the edward h. little endowed scholarship was provided by the e. h. little trust. the mahoney family student emergency assistance fund was established in 2009 by wendi and robert mahoney, parents of alex mahoney '08 and nate mahoney '11, to be awarded in the event of financial crisis to students who are active and successful members of the rhodes community and who demonstrate a need for emergency assistance as determined and selected by college committee. the robert mann '47 scholarship was provided through a bequest to provide financial aid for music students. the james j. and ada manson memorial scholarship was established by their daughter, the late lucille manson tate of new orleans, and the first presbyterian church of new orleans. the roma and jeff a. marmon, jr. memorial scholarships were established by mr. and mrs. george mallouk of garden city, new york, and other friends and relatives. he was a member of the class of 1939. the edward c. martin, jr. scholarship was funded through the estate of mr. martin '41. itmatters of record https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/311 49 of 85 7/25/23, 12:56 pm is awarded to deserving students with financial need. the ireys martin scholarship , established by the association of rhodes women, is awarded to a qualified female student. the lina matthews service scholarship was established in 2006 through the estate of lina matthews. preference is given to presbyterian students studying for ministry or other work in the church and who have demonstrated experience in and commitment to community service. the mona rice matthews fellowship for the arts was funded by the estate of mona rice matthews in 2007. it provides support for arts programs that foster leadership, vision, communications and innovation for future leaders in the fine arts. the maxwell family scholarship was established in memory of mr. and mrs. j. b. maxwell of dyersburg, tennessee, by members of their family. preference is given to students from dyersburg or west tennessee. the may scholarship of second presbyterian church of little rock, arkansas, is provided through the proceeds of the ruth may gibb trust as administered by second presbyterian church, little rock, arkansas. preference is given to arkansas students, with consideration given to financial need, academic achievement, and educational goals of the student. the carolyn mcafee annual fine arts fellowship , established by carolyn t. mcafee in 2008, is awarded to a student with talent or interest in the fine arts, with a preference for music. preference is given to students from west tennessee. the robert d. mccallum scholarship was created in honor of the late robert d. mccallum, life trustee of rhodes, by his friend julian robertson. preference is given to students with partial financial need, and awarded on the basis of the students' high ethical values, leadership ability, and academic performance. the purpose of the scholarships is to enable middle-income students who meet these criteria to get a rhodes education. the virginia and jett mccallum scholarship was established by her husband robert d. mccallum to support students studying the fine arts, including the study of paintings, drawings, etchings, and sculpture, but not including the study of commercial art. the gail mcclay scholarship was established in her memory by family, colleagues, and former students. gail mcclay was associate professor and chair of the education department until her death in 1999. the scholarship benefits students in education with demonstrated financial need. the william e. mcclure '51 service scholarship was funded through the estate of william e. mcclure '51. the scholarship is awarded to students who commit to performing tenmatters of record https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/311 50 of 85 7/25/23, 12:56 pm hours of community service weekly. the william '51 and helen '51 mcclure study abroad fellowship was created in 2010 to honor her late parents by dr.catherine mcclure leslie and the helen and william mcclure family fund at the community foundation of greater memphis. it provides for assistance to an upperclass student majoring in commerce and business to study abroad in a rhodes-approved program. the anna leigh mccorkle work study scholarship was established by her family and friends to provide on-campus employment of students. the mccoy service scholarship was founded in 2004 by the mccoy foundation. the seth and mary ann mcgaughran scholarship for creative writing, established by mr. and mrs. mcgaughran, is awarded to a deserving student with interest and ability in creative writing and who resides within 150 miles of memphis. the mcgehee scholarship was established by james e. mcgehee & company, memphis. priority is given to residents of shelby county. achievement, rather than need, is the principal consideration. the john h. mcminn scholarship was established by alumnus john h. mcminn iii '68 of miami, florida. the phillip h. mcneill family scholarship was established in 2005 by rhodes trustee phillip h. mcneill and mabel mccall mcneill, parents of hallie mcneill ward '96. the scholarship provides opportunities to outstanding students who demonstrate strength of character and commitment to their faith through leadership and involvement in community, church, or school. the louise howry mcrae fine arts scholarship was established in 2005 through the estates of louise howry mcrae '43 and robert mcrae of memphis. it provides financial aid for deserving students who are majoring in the fine arts and who have demonstrated experience and commitment to community service. the david mcwilliams '78 endowed scholarship was established in his memory by his family and friends and is used for general financial aid, with no restrictions. the hilda menke scholarship was established by milton and elizabeth picard and by hubert and stella menke in memory of mr. menke's mother. the recipient is a deserving student from the mid-south area. the frances jeter michaelcheck scholarship program established in 2015 by william j. michaelcheck '69 in honor of his mother seeks to enroll, challenge and graduate students who can contribute and take full advantage of rhodes. preference given to students frommatters of record https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/311 51 of 85 7/25/23, 12:56 pm western tennessee who demonstrate high financial need, commitment to service and leadership in their school or community, and have a willingness to work hard and learn from difficult circumstances. the evelyn g. millsap '47 service scholarship was created in 2005 through the estate of alumni evelyn g. millsap. it provides financial aid for deserving students who have demonstrated experience and commitment to community service. the kimberley s. millsaps scholarship was established by mr. and mrs. kenneth e. millsaps, with their family and friends, in memory of their daughter kimberley millsaps '90 who was injured in a car accident during her senior year at rhodes. the scholarship is awarded annually to a rising senior who is a member of the alpha omicron pi sorority. the frank m. mitchener, sr. scholarship was established during their lifetimes by his daughters, frances m. scott '33 and mary rose m. wilds, and his wife, mrs. frank m. mitchener, sr. of sumner, mississippi. the edward a. mohns scholarship was endowed by the late dr. edward a. mohns '24, portland, oregon, and his family to give financial support to students preparing for careers in the ministry or medicine. the pamela palmer montesi scholarship for the arts was a gift from pamela palmer montesi '80 and her husband, frederick thomas montesi, iii, and their two children, pamela nicole montesi and frederick thomas montesi, iv '06 in honor of pam's 25th class reunion in 2005. the scholarship aids students who demonstrate a love of the arts, regardless of academic major, with preference given to a student of music or the theatre. primary emphasis for the selection of the recipients is based upon the student’s genuine religious nature and integrity of character. the lewis matthew moore scholarship was created in 1947 by ethel dean moore in memory of her son. preference is given to a student from alabama. the mayo moore scholarship was established by the tunica county rotary club. thedr. moore moore scholarship was established by mrs. houston n. moore in honor of her husband and board of trustee member dr. moore moore jr. ’29. the scholarship helps support rhodes students with financial need. the virginia lee moore scholarship , established by a rhodes staff member in memory of her mother, is awarded to students with need. the goodbar morgan '31 scholarship was established in 2006 through the estate of terry westbrook '66. goodbar morgan was director of alumni at rhodes for 26 years prior to serving as the college archivist in his “retirement.” he and dr. westbrook were both members of sigma nu fraternity and preference is given to the most qualified member ofmatters of record https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/311 52 of 85 7/25/23, 12:56 pm sigma nu fraternity. the william insley morris memorial scholarship was established by his sister rosanna morris '41. mr. morris served in the navy at various weather stations around the world. the norvelle hammett and adolphus b. morton scholarship was established by their daughter and son-in-law, mr. and mrs. a. d. wilhelm, parents of alumnus jack wilhelm '75. the murfree service scholarship was established in 2005 by rhodes trustee katherine davis murfree. it provides financial aid for deserving students who have demonstrated financial need as well as experience with and commitment to community service. the sanford alvin myatt, m.d. scholarship was established by mrs. lewis j. myatt of memphis in memory of her son, a member of the class of 1966. preference is given to a junior or senior pre-medical student. the fred w. neal scholarship was established by family and friends of the late dr. neal, professor emeritus of religious studies. the hugh m. neely scholarships were established by the late mrs. mary sneed neely, memphis. the joe neville scholarships are sponsored by the black alumni connection of the rhodes alumni association in honor of joe neville, who worked in the rhodes physical plant for 44 years. mr. neville was always there for rhodes students with abiding friendship, encouragement and inspiration. the scholarship provides support for the emergency needs of minority students that exceed the college financial aid package. the t. russell nunan and cora clark nunan scholarship was established in 2007 through the estates of dr. and mrs. nunan. preference is given to a student who is a member of the first presbyterian church of greenville, mississippi, or a student from washington county, mississippi. the william lucian oates scholarship was created in 1965 by the late hugo n. dixon of memphis. the edmund orgill scholarship was established by his friends in recognition of his outstanding church, civic, and educational services, and is awarded to students who have given evidence of interest in and concern for governmental processes. the ortmann-cox memorial scholarship was established by the will of bessie cox ortmann. the john a. and ruth c. osoinach memorial scholarship was provided by the estate ofmatters of record https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/311 53 of 85 7/25/23, 12:56 pm dr. harrison kirkland osoinach '55 to support students of native american ancestry or other minorities. the george marion painter memorial scholarship was established by the first presbyterian church of gallatin, tennessee, and by mrs. george m. painter of gallatin and mrs. priscilla early of memphis. preference is given to students majoring in commerce and business, mathematics, or public education. the p. thomas parrish '79 service scholarship was established in 2004 by his classmates and friends. the may thompson patton music scholarship was established by lynda lipscomb wexler '60 to honor her mother-in-law and is awarded to a student majoring in music. the elizabeth roe pearce '91 international study fellowship was established in 2008 by elizabeth roe pearce '91. this fellowship will be awarded to students participating in a study abroad opportunity on the basis of demonstrated financial need with a minimum required grade point average of 2.75. the michael d. pearigen '77 endowed scholarship was established in 2022 and is used for general financial aid, with no restrictions. the bettye m. pedersen scholarship was established by martha i. pedersen '70 in memory of her mother. preference is given to students with need who are from small towns in tennessee, have declared an art, music, or science major, and intend to teach at some level. the israel h. peres scholarship was established by the late hardwig peres, ll.d. of memphis, and friends of the late israel h. peres, former chancellor in memphis’ chancery court. the scholarship is awarded to residents of shelby county. the jason turnbow pettigrew '96 memorial scholarship is awarded to a junior or senior who embodies jason's fervor for life. the scholarship helps the student pursue such activities as travel abroad, mission work, or additional educational pursuits in conjunction with their studies at rhodes. the liz and milton picard scholarship was created through gifts from elizabeth tamm picard and her late husband. the mrs. ruth c. pickens fellowship was established in 2007 by trustee robert r. waller and sarah pickens waller '63 to support minority students who have potential for success at rhodes. they must demonstrate financial need, show leadership potential and commit to participation in campus and/or community outreach activities. the clarence e. pigford scholarship was established by mrs. clarence e. pigford ofmatters of record https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/311 54 of 85 7/25/23, 12:56 pm jackson, tennessee, to honor her husband who was a trustee of rhodes college. the frances pillow memorial fund was established in memory of frances pillow '72 by her family and friends. the fund is used to provide scholarships for arkansas students. the olive manson pitcher scholarship was established in her memory by elizabeth o. pagaud of new orleans. the julia and moses plough scholarships were established by the late mr. abe plough in memory of his parents. the william b. powell scholarship was established by the dixie wax paper company of memphis. preference is given to students connected with dixico, as the company is now named, or to students from canada. the mary louise pritchard '51 scholarship was given at her 50th class reunion by mrs. pritchard in memory of elizabeth ann pritchard and patricia barton pritchard and in honor of mary louise crawford. the morton d. and elsie prouty scholarship was established by mr. and mrs. morton d. prouty of florence, alabama. mr. prouty was a member of rhodes board of trustees. the schuyler harris pryor scholarship was created by his mother, mrs. lutie patton shaw. the lynn elizabeth pyeatt memorial scholarship was established by her parents, mr. and mrs. wayne w. pyeatt, memphis, tennessee; her grandmother, mrs. lillian pyeatt, searcy, arkansas; and by her friends. income from the fund is awarded to women students majoring in music who have been nominated for this award by the music department and to a student majoring in mathematics. the william c. “razz” rasberry '30 scholarship was established by doris rasberry jones '59 in honor of her father, rhodes alumnus and life trustee. the scholarship is awarded to students with financial need. the red shoes service scholarship was established by an anonymous alumna in 2006. it is awarded to students who demonstrate experience with and commitment to community service and leadership. the lieutenant russell e. reeves, jr. scholarship was established by his parents, mrs. russell e. reeves and the late mr. reeves, memphis. the income from this fund assists a worthy male student. the lorna anderson reimers scholarship was established through her bequest. she wasmatters of record https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/311 55 of 85 7/25/23, 12:56 pm a rhodes trustee from jackson, ms. the linda williams rhea scholarship was established by the late herbert rhea, rhodes trustee emeritus, during his lifetime in honor of his wife. the percy m. and ramona r. rhea scholarship was created in honor of his parents by rhodes trustee randall r. rhea '77. it benefits students of high academic ability with demonstrated financial need. the margaret johnson ridolphi '63 scholarship was endowed by meg and scott crosby in 2013 to honor meg’s mother at her 50th reunion. the scholarship is created to enroll, challenge and graduate students who can contribute and take full advantage of rhodes. matthew rigdon ’02 international study abroad scholarship was funded in 2015 by alumni matthew rigdon to provide resources to students that would otherwise not have the opportunity for an international experience. the alice archer rhodes scholarship was established by the association of rhodes women. preference is given to a qualified female student. rhodes service scholarships are awarded to students who have demonstrated an exceptional record of leadership and service participation in their communities and who wish to become effective leaders who promote positive change in the world. they are provided through an endowment established by the robert and ruby priddy charitable trust, wichita, texas. the rich memorial international scholarship , created by alumna mary jack rich mccord '51, provides aid for study abroad to students with demonstrated financial need. preference is given to women students. the richardson scholarship for the arts was established by the late kathleen richardson in 2007. it provides support for arts programs that foster leadership, vision, communications and innovation for future leaders in the fine arts. the kathleen richardson scholarship was provided in 2007 by the estate of mrs. richardson of memphis. the scholarship serves to aid students with demonstrated financial need. the eleanor richmond and jessie richmond hooper scholarship was established by family and friends. ms. richmond was a member of the class of 1927 and ms. hooper the class of 1935. the dr. and mrs. f. ray riddle, jr. scholarship for the arts was established by f. ray riddle, jr. in 2007. it provides support for arts programs that foster leadership, vision, communications and innovation for future leaders in the fine arts.matters of record https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/311 56 of 85 7/25/23, 12:56 pm the lou anna robbins scholarship was established by jess h. robbins of dyersburg, tennessee. preference is given to a student from first presbyterian church, dyersburg, or a student from dyer county. the patricia and charles robertson, jr. '65 scholarship was established by the robertsons to provide four-year support to students with documented, demonstrated financial need, and who show a commitment to contributing and learning inside and outside the classroom. the martha robinson scholarship for the arts was established in 2007 through the termination of the martha robinson charitable remainder trust. it provides support for arts programs that foster leadership, vision, communications and innovation for future leaders in the fine arts. the john f. rockett scholarship was created in 1991 in his memory through gifts from family, business associates, and friends. the scholarship is awarded to a junior or senior athlete who plans to attend medical school. the professor jim roper '48 scholarship was established by rhodes alumnus and trustee stratton bull '74 for the financial aid support of rhodes students. the anne l. rorie/chi omega scholarship was established in her memory by her parents, dr. and mrs. j. e. rorie. and by her friends and fellow students. anne was a member of the class of 1982. the william m. rosson scholarship in physics was established in 1989 to honor conwood corporation president, william rosson. the scholarship is awarded to a student majoring in physics. the lucy w. rowe scholarship was provided by the late mrs. lucy w. rowe and her daughter, mrs. william r. carrington jones, memphis. the jules b. rozier scholarships were established by the late mr. jules b. rozier, memphis. the theo matthews hayden and marjorie matthews russell study abroad scholarship was funded by the estate of marjorie m. russell in 2008. the scholarship will be awarded to rhodes students who wish to study abroad in scotland. the theo matthews hayden and marjorie matthews russell scholarship was funded by the estate of marjorie m. russell in 2008. it is to be awarded to a student from scotland who wishes to attend rhodes college. if no student from scotland qualifies in any given year, then the scholarship will be awarded to a student with demonstrated financial need. the john hunt rutledge ii scholarship was provided by friends in memory of thismatters of record https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/311 57 of 85 7/25/23, 12:56 pm outstanding leader from the class of 1972. the billie j. scharding scholarship was established through a bequest of mrs. scharding. the mary gideon schillig '47 scholarship for the arts was funded by the estate of mary gideon schillig in 2007. it provides support for arts programs that foster leadership, vision, communications and innovation for future leaders in the fine arts. the stephen j. schmidt, jr. scholarship was provided for students with need by the late mr. schmidt, class of 1972. the charlaine harris schulz '73 scholarship is awarded to a female student with financial need. preference is given to individuals who major or minor in english. the dr. and mrs. perry d. scrivner scholarship was established by the late mrs. lucretia h. scrivner of lawton, oklahoma. this scholarship is to be awarded to a worthy student interested in education as a profession. the josephine gilfillan seabrook '42 and conrad l. seabrook scholarship for the arts was established in 2007. it provides support for arts programs that foster leadership, vision, communications and innovation for future leaders in the fine arts. the second presbyterian church, memphis, scholarships are funded by second presbyterian church. preference is given to members of second presbyterian church and members of churches affiliated with the evangelical presbyterian church. the service scholarship was established in 2006 by an anonymous donor to support bonner service scholars. the madhuri and devchand shah scholarship was created in 2013 by vimal shah '94, in honor of his parents. the scholarship is awarded to a minority student from a lower income family. the elder l. shearon, jr. scholarship was created by the southern company to honor its late president and goes to a student with financial need. the charles r. and rebecca l. sherman service scholarship was established in 2005 by charles '35 and rebecca '38 in memory of their respective parents, charles robert sherman and rosa livingston sherman, and judge harry williamson laughlin and frances weber laughlin. the scholarship is awarded to students who demonstrate experience in and commitment to community service. the anne and mary shewmaker scholarship was established through the estate of mary shewmaker in 2006 to aid students with demonstrated financial need. preference is given to female graduates of central high school, memphis.matters of record https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/311 58 of 85 7/25/23, 12:56 pm the clare orman shields '73 scholarship was initiated in her memory by louise allen ‘77 and jan cornaghie. additional funding was provided by her late husband, lynn shields, as well as family and classmates. it provides aid to women students with financial need. clare shields was a great advocate for women, having been both a pioneer and a role model for women in the legal community. the shiland/park scholarship was established in 2013 by patricia shiland p'15 and james park p'15 to enroll, challenge and graduate talented students from middle income families who demonstrate an entrepreneurial spirit. the charles m. simmons '09 fellowship was established in 2009 by his parents, jan and tom simmons, and the bea and margaret love foundation. this scholarship supports a student from texas with academic promise and a commitment to learning outside of the classroom through an internship, service, study abroad, or research experience. the david l. simpson iii '58 scholarship was established in 2009 in his memory by his wife, trustee elizabeth lemaster simpson '58, to benefit students with need from middle income families. the robert and seabelle simono scholarship was provided by judith simono durff '66 and thomas h. durff '65 to honor her parents. the scholarship is awarded to students with need from mississippi. the cindy and john sites scholarship was created by john sites '74 and his wife cindy of new york. this scholarship is awarded based on academic merit of the student. the leland smith emergency assistance fund was established in his memory by james n. augustine '89 and his wife, tanya augustine, in 2008. the fund provides emergency assistance to students beyond the college’s normal financial aid package. the katherine hinds smythe scholarship was provided by katherine hinds smythe '53 to assist deserving students who face financial crises which threaten their return to rhodes. preference is given to female students. the paul snodgrass '46 scholarship for the arts was established through his estate. it provides supports for arts programs that foster leadership, vision, communications and innovation for future leaders in the fine arts. the william spandow scholarship in chemistry was established by the late mrs. florence gage spandow, memphis. this scholarship is awarded to a senior majoring in chemistry whose previous record indicates graduation with academic honors or with honors research. the william spandow scholarship in mathematics was established by the late mrs. florence gage spandow, memphis. this scholarship is awarded to a senior majoring inmatters of record https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/311 59 of 85 7/25/23, 12:56 pm mathematics who is a candidate for the degree with academic honors or with honors research. the william spandow scholarship in physics was established by the late mrs. florence gage spandow, memphis. this scholarship is awarded to a senior majoring in physics who is a candidate for the degree with academic honors or with honors research. the c. l. and mildred w. springfield honor scholarship was established by mr. james f. springfield '51 of memphis to honor his mother and his father, who was for many years comptroller of the college. the james f. springfield, jr. '87 scholarship for the arts was established in 2006 by james f. springfield, sr. '51 in honor of his son. it provides support for arts programs that foster leadership, vision, communications and innovation for future leaders in the arts. the virgil starks, iii '85 memorial scholarship was established in 2013 by his friends for students from the state of alabama pursuing a career in medicine, law, teaching, or theology. the mark lee stephens scholarship was established in his memory by his parents. this award goes to a rising sophomore majoring in theatre. mark was a member of the class of 1988. the edward norrel stewart scholarship , created by the late dr. ellen davies-rodgers, is awarded to a student in commerce and business. the tommye virginia stewart '53 scholarship was established by the alumna's sister, mrs. dorothy shepherd, for deserving students with need. the dr. thomas e. and peggy c. strong scholarship was established by family and friends on the occasion of his retirement from medical practice. dr. and mrs. strong, members of the classes of 1954 and 1955, have subsequently increased the value of the strong scholarship through their own gifts. it is awarded to students with financial need selected on the basis of academic achievement and promise. the sudderth scholarship , established by the friends and family of dr. brian sudderth '77, is awarded to a student who demonstrates outstanding academic and leadership qualities as well as a desire to serve those in need through practice in the “learned professions” of medicine, law, and/or theology. the warren ware sullivan memorial scholarship was established by his father, mr. h. p. sullivan, walls, mississippi, and friends of the family. the gene dickson symes scholarship was established by members of webster groves presbyterian church, webster groves, missouri, in honor of their organist emeritus, thematters of record https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/311 60 of 85 7/25/23, 12:56 pm late gene dickson symes '45. the jack h. taylor fellowship in physics was created in 2005 by alumnus charles w. robertson, jr. '65 and his wife patricia k. robertson. from 1956 to 1992, dr. jack h. taylor '44 served on the rhodes faculty as professor of physics. dr. robertson was inspired by dr. taylor and pursued a very successful career in physics after graduation. the fellowship, restricted to students studying physics, is awarded through application and competitive process based on academic and scientific achievements as well as interest and aptitude for the study of physics. the jack h. taylor scholarship was established in 2000 by harry l. swinney '61 in honor of his rhodes mentor, jack h. taylor '44, professor emeritus of physics. the scholarship is restricted to students majoring in the physical and biological sciences. the mary allie taylor scholarship was created through the will of miss taylor, class of 1933. the tennessee churches scholarship was funded by the presbyterian churches of tennessee and the synod of tennessee in the mid-1970's. preference is given to a presbyterian student. the james a. thomas iii '62 service scholarship was established in 2005 by an anonymous alumnus to provide financial aid for deserving students who have demonstrated financial need as well as experience with and commitment to community service. the whit thomas scholarship was established in his memory by the sigma nu fraternity epsilon sigma chapter at rhodes. the edward f. thompson scholarship fund was established by the late mr. thompson, a member of rhodes class of 1929 and retired economist with union planters bank of memphis. the frances tigrett service scholarship was funded through the estate of frances tigrett of jackson, tennessee. the scholarship is awarded to students who commit to performing ten hours of community service weekly. the tollison family scholarship was established to support middle income students by grady tollison, jr. '62 and his wife, lisa. the elizabeth '04 and sarah '07 townsend family scholarship was established in 2008 by their parents deborah and darrell townsend of nashville, tennessee. it is awarded to a student with demonstrated financial need. the bill and carole troutt scholarship was established in 2007 by dr. and mrs. troutt tomatters of record https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/311 61 of 85 7/25/23, 12:56 pm support a middle-income student from west tennessee who otherwise would be unable to attend rhodes. the truist fellowship is provided to support deserving students with financial need. preference is given to memphis students. the paul tudor and anna hudson jones '32 scholarship was established by former trustee ann boyle and her husband john boyle in honor of her parents. the scholarship supports the financial aid needs of rhodes students. the henry and lynne turley rirs fellowship was created by henry and lynne turley in 2010 to support the rhodes institute for regional studies (rirs) for four years. each year, the turley fellowship will provide funding for one rirs faculty member and will support three rirs fellows, including research and travel funds to aid these students in their individual research projects. the frank l. turner '50 scholarship for the arts was funded in 2010 through his estate. it provides support for arts programs that foster leadership, vision, communications and innovation for future leaders in the fine arts. the ut neuroscience student research fellowship was established in 2006 by james t. robertson '53 to support an outstanding student in the physical sciences who is selected to pursue summer research activities in neuroscience at the university of tennessee center for the health sciences. the douglas l. viar memorial scholarship was established in 2013 by michelle viar '94 in memory of her father. the scholarship will provide critical aid to students who unexpectedly require financial help to complete their rhodes education. the emma dean voorhies boys club scholarship was established by the boys club of memphis to provide assistance to a boys club member. the debby and john wallace iii '75 service scholarship was established by trustee john m. wallace iii '75 and his wife debby. it provides aid to students who have demonstrated experience in and commitment to community service. the edith wright wallace '44 scholarship was established in her memory by her mother, the late ethel winfrey wright. it is awarded to students with need. mrs. wallace was a latin teacher in the memphis city schools for 34 years prior to her death in 1978. the dr. robert r. and sarah pickens waller scholarship was established by alumna sarah waller '63 and her husband, trustee robert waller. the mary rodriguez wardrop '55 scholarship was established by rhodes alumna mary rodriguez wardrop '55 to support the financial needs of rhodes students.matters of record https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/311 62 of 85 7/25/23, 12:56 pm the harry b. watkins, jr. memorial scholarship was created by the first presbyterian church of dyersburg, tennessee. the henry c. watkins scholarship was established by mr. edmund orgill, c.i.t. financial services, and c.i.t. executives. the dr. and mrs. paul mclauren watson scholarship was established with a gift during their lifetimes from rose lynn barnard watson '38 and lauren watson '37 of memphis. the rev. dr. roy edwards watts '25 and margaret vincent watts '25 coda scholarship was established by in 2007 through their estates. it provides aid to deserving students participating in the center for outreach in the development of the arts at rhodes. the program fosters leadership, vision, communications and innovation for future leaders in the fine arts. the norma webb scholarship was created in 2013 by norma webb '52 to support students with need. the walker wellford, jr. scholarship was established in his honor by his wife, the late minnie lundy wellford '29, and is awarded to a deserving student. the late mr. wellford '29 was secretary of the board of trustees from 1957 to 1961. esther west scholarship was established by esther west pearson ’32 to provide aid to deserving rhodes students. the terry e. westbrook '66 scholarship for international study was established in 2006 through dr. westbrook's estate. it provides aid to deserving students with demonstrated financial need to engage in study abroad. the robert william wheeler '84 endowed scholarship is awarded to a student with financial need. the gordon white scholarship was established by his sister, the late mrs. lizzie gordon white hood, nashville, tennessee. the mary kennedy lane white scholarship was established by mrs. alice b. buell. it is restricted to a student from giles county, tennessee. the sarah b. white '39 scholarship was established by members of the class of 1939 in honor of rhodes alumna sarah boothe white to support the financial aid needs of rhodes students. the thomas j. white, jr. '39 scholarship , established in 2011 through his estate, provides need-based aid to deserving students.matters of record https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/311 63 of 85 7/25/23, 12:56 pm the lettie pate whitehead scholarships are awarded on an annual basis by the lettie pate whitehead foundation of atlanta. these scholarships are awarded to deserving female students from nine southern states named by the foundation. the charles b. wiggin and aileen smith wiggin scholarship was established in 2004 through the estate of aileen n. wiggin of meridian, mississippi. preference is given to students who are mississippi residents. the russel s. and teresa l. wilkinson scholarship was established by a friend of mr. wilkinson to provide scholarship assistance to students attending rhodes. the anne marie williford emergency aid fund was established in 2009 by an anonymous alumna to provide aid in the event of financial crisis to students who are active and successful members of the rhodes community and who demonstrate a need for emergency assistance as determined and selected by college committee. the jane wittichen williams and ernest b. williams iii scholarship , provided by alumna mrs. williams '52 and her husband, gives preference for aid to upperclassmen who exhibit a commitment to community service. the m. j. williams scholarship honors the former director of finance at rhodes. the jim and jackie williamson scholarship was created by james c. williamson '50 and jacqueline newman williamson '52 in honor of their 50th class reunions. the kemmons wilson family foundation service scholarship was established in 2006 by the kemmons wilson family foundation. selection is based on the student’s academic performance, leadership ability, and involvement in his or her high school community. as part of scholarship requirements, recipients will participate in community service and leadership programs while enrolled at rhodes. the spence l. wilson service scholarship was created in 2005 by the then chair of rhodes board of trustees, spence l. wilson and his wife rebecca webb wilson. it provides financial aid for deserving students who have demonstrated financial need as well as experience with and commitment to community service. the b. oliver wood scholarship was established by mr. and mrs. b. oliver wood, jr. of midland, texas, in memory of his father, an alumnus in the class of 1915. the marjorie '39 and al '39 wunderlich scholarship was established in 2008 by al wunderlich and his late wife, marjorie jennings wunderlich. it is awarded to a deserving student with demonstrated financial need. the mrs. grey s. wurtsbaugh scholarship is awarded to a student with financial need with preference given to students from shreveport, louisiana.matters of record https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/311 64 of 85 7/25/23, 12:56 pm the john thomas wurtsbaugh scholarship was established by mrs. john thomas wurtsbaugh of shreveport, louisiana, in memory of her husband. printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/matters-record/endowments-awards-and- memorials faculty the faculty rhodes’ strength as a distinguished college of the liberal arts and sciences is dependent on an exceptionally able student body and a faculty of effective teachers and committed scholars. college planning, including curriculum and academic facilities, is done with the objective of making it possible for students and faculty to create an imaginative and challenging learning experience. rhodes recruits faculty members who demonstrate excellent teaching and who show promise of continued and significant scholarly activity. the college also depends on the faculty to provide leadership not only in academic development for the college but also in the overall governance of the institution. the college is justifiably proud of the accomplishments of its faculty. in particular, the clarence day award for outstanding teaching, the clarence day award for research and creative activity, and the jameson m. jones outstanding faculty service award are given to those individuals judged as deserving of special recognition. award winners have been as follows: clarence day award for outstanding teaching 1981 dr. jack u. russell , mathematics 1982 dr. marshall e. mcmahon , economics 1983 dr. william larry lacy , philosophy 1984 dr. james m. vest , french 1985 dr. fred w. neal , religious studies 1986 dr. e. llewellyn queener , psychology 1987 dr. rebecca sue legge , business administration 1988 dr. terry w. hill , biology 1989 dr. f. michael mclain , religious studies 1990 dr. cynthia marshall , english 1991 dr. william t. jolly , classics 1992 dr. g. kenneth williams , mathematics 1993 dr. jennifer brady , englishmatters of record https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/311 65 of 85 7/25/23, 12:56 pm 1994 dr. horst r. dinkelacker , modern languages and literatures 1995 dr. carolyn r. jaslow , biology 1996 professor julia ewing , theatre 1997 dr. bradford d. pendley , chemistry 1998 dr. ellen t. armour , religious studies 1999 dr. michael r. drompp , history 2000 dr. brian w. shaffer , english 2001 dr. stephen r. haynes , religious studies 2002 dr. marshall boswell, english 2003 dr. brent hoffmeister , physics 2004 dr. timothy s. huebner , history 2005 dr. stephen j. ceccoli , international studies 2006 dr. tina barr , english 2007 dr. patrick shade , philosophy 2008 dr. mark w. muesse , religious studies 2009 dr. p. eric henager , modern languages and literatures 2010 dr. gordon bigelow , english 2011 dr. bernadette mcnary-zak , religious studies 2012 dr. luther d. ivory , religious studies 2013 dr. thomas bryant , music 2014 dr. teresa beckham gramm , economics 2015 dr. loretta jackson-hayes , chemistry 2016 dr. scott newstok, english 2017 dr. marcus pohlmann, political science 2018 dr. charles mckinney, history 2019 dr. amy risley, international studies 2020 dr. geoff maddox, psychology 2021 dr. brian larkins, mathematics and computer science 2022 dr. rebecca finlayson, english 2023 dr. david mccarthy, art and art history clarence day award for research and creative activity 1981 dr. john f. copper , international studies 1983 professor jack d. farris , english 1984 dr. richard d. gilliom , chemistry 1985 dr. david h. kesler , biology 1986 professor tony lee garner , theatre 1987 dr. james m. olcese , biology 1988 dr. john f. copper , international studies 1989 dr. alan p. jaslow , biology 1990 dr. jack h. taylor , physics 1991 dr. marcus d. pohlmann , political sciencematters of record https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/311 66 of 85 7/25/23, 12:56 pm 1992 dr. steven l. mckenzie , religious studies 1993 dr. robert j. strandburg , psychology 1994 dr. andrew a. michta , international studies 1995 dr. brian w. shaffer , english 1996 dr. cynthia a. marshall , english 1997 dr. stephen r. haynes , religious studies 1998 dr. robert m. macqueen , physics 1999 dr. gail p. c. streete , religious studies 2000 dr. susan m. kus , anthropology/sociology 2001 dr. michael nelson , political science 2002 dr. lynn b. zastoupil , history 2003 dr. natalie k. person , psychology 2004 dr. david p. mccarthy , art 2005 dr. daniel g. arce , economics 2006 dr. ming dong gu , modern languages and literatures 2007 dr. marshall boswell , english 2008 dr. mary miller , biology 2009 dr. christopher mouron , mathematics and computer science 2010 dr. terry hill , biology; dr. darlene loprete, chemistry 2011 dr. jeffrey jackson , history 2012 dr. shadrack w. nasong’o , international studies 2013 dr. patrick gray , religious studies 2014 dr. katherine white , psychology 2015 dr. christopher seaton , mathematics and computer science 2016 dr. carole blankenship, music 2017 dr. betsy sanders, mathematics and computer science 2018 dr. marsha walton, psychology 2019 dr. michael larosa, history 2020 dr. david rupke, physics 2021 dr. scott newstok, english 2022 dr. zac casey, educational studies 2023 dr. william skoog, music diehl society award for service 1988 dr. harold lyons , chemistry 1989 dr. john s. olsen , biology 1990 professor david ramsey , music 1991 dr. david y. jeter , chemistry 1992 dr. gail c. mcclay , education 1993 dr. robert l. llewellyn , philosophymatters of record https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/311 67 of 85 7/25/23, 12:56 pm 1994 dr. douglas w. hatfield , history 1995 dr. rebecca sue legge , business administration 1996 dr. charles c. orvis , economics 1997 dr. donald w. tucker , modern languages and literatures 1998 dr. kathryn l. wright , modern languages and literatures 1999 dr. marcus d. pohlmann , political science 2000 dr. f. michael mclain , religious studies 2001 dr. michael p. kirby , political science 2002 dr. robert j. strandburg , psychology 2003 dr. marsha d. walton , psychology 2004 dr. joseph a. favazza , religious studies the jameson m. jones outstanding faculty service award 2005 dr. ellen t. armour , religious studies 2006 dr. timothy s. huebner , history 2007 dr. john c. kaltner , religious studies 2008 dr. gail p. c. streete , religious studies 2009 dr. david kesler , biology 2010 dr. steve ceccoli , international studies 2011 professor david jilg , theatre 2012 dr. milton moreland , religious studies 2013 dr. rebecca s. finlayson , english 2014 dr. john planchon , commerce and business 2015 dr. bernadette mcnary-zak , religious studies 2016 dr. judith haas, english 2017 dr. natalie person, psychology 2018 dr. michael drompp, history 2019 dr. pamela church, business 2020 dr. gary lindquester, biology 2021 dr. r. elizabeth thomas, urban studies 2022 dr. leslie petty, english printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/matters-record/faculty historical summary rhodes had its origin in the clarksville academy, founded in 1837. the academy conveyed its property in 1848 to the masonic grand lodge of tennessee and was merged into the new masonic university of tennessee, a degree-granting institution of higher education located in clarksville, tennessee. this institution became montgomery masonic college in 1850, and in 1855 its name was again changed, to stewart college, in honor ofmatters of record https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/311 68 of 85 7/25/23, 12:56 pm its president, william m. stewart. under president stewart’s leadership the operation of the college passed from the masonic lodge to the presbyterian synod of nashville. under the plan of union of 1873, the presbyterian church reorganized stewart college after the reconstruction era to operate it as the single presbyterian college for the entire area which was at that time considered to be the southwest. in 1875 stewart college became southwestern presbyterian university, developing alongside the undergraduate curriculum a school of theology, under the leadership of dr. joseph wilson, father of woodrow wilson. the school of theology remained in operation until 1917. under the leadership of president charles e. diehl, the college moved to memphis in 1925 and adopted as its name southwestern, denoting a liberal arts college. in 1945, the official college name became southwestern at memphis. on july 1, 1984, the name of the college was changed to rhodes college in honor of peyton nalle rhodes, president from 1949 to 1965, who joined the faculty in 1926 and served the institution until his death in 1984. john david alexander served as president from 1965 to 1969; william lukens bowden, from 1969 to 1973; james harold daughdrill, jr., from 1973 to 1999; and william earl troutt, from 1999 to 2017. dr. marjorie hass served as president from 2017 to 2021. jennifer m. collins became the 21st president of the college on july 1, 2022. printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/matters-record/historical-summary intellectual property rhodes college is a college of liberal arts whose mission is to maintain a community of inquiry, discourse, and experiment in which it is clear that scholarship and teaching are parts of a single enterprise. in the course of education there is an expansion of knowledge and understanding, whether in the arts, social sciences, natural sciences or humanities. among the activities in the study and expansion of knowledge and understanding are the creation of works in the literary, dramatic, musical and visual arts; and of research in the social and physical sciences potentially producing innovation and technology. the intellectual endeavors and activities of rhodes faculty, staff, or students may result in products of a tangible nature for which the college and the faculty, staff, or student may deem it advantageous to enter these products into commerce. these products may be the subject of a patent application or a copyrightable work or other tangible material and are known collectively as “intellectual property.” it is the policy of rhodes college to encourage, support and recognize the contributions of the faculty, and the student body where significant works are created. likewise it is amatters of record https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/311 69 of 85 7/25/23, 12:56 pm policy of the college to honor the legal rights of authors and inventors, as well as the funding entities supporting varied works. in order to recognize the potentially overlapping rights in the complex support structure for the college’s activities, the college has issued this policy on intellectual property for the guidance of all participating in the mission of the college. this policy is intended to: • provide an incentive to creative intellectual effort and the advancement of knowledge. • insure that the respective interests of the college, and supporting sponsor (if any) are considered and protected through the development of fair contracts and procedures. • assist the staff and the college to realize tangible benefits from intellectual property, and advance and encourage further research within the college with whatever funds accrue to the college from intellectual property resulting from college research. definitions • “college” shall mean rhodes college. • “staff” shall mean any member of the faculty, administration, staff, student body, postdoctoral fellow, or visiting scientist, whether or not they receive all or any part of their salary or other compensation from the college. • “inventor” shall mean any staff member who shall conceive or reduce to practice an invention while engaged in college activities. • “author” shall mean any staff member who prepares any college copyrightable work. • “contributor” shall mean any staff member who shall have contributed substantially to the existence of any item of intellectual property. • “college activities” shall mean activities engaged in by a member of the staff by: (a) written assignment of the college administration; (b) contractual agreement with the college or any sponsor; (c) material use of facilities (other than its libraries), or other resources of the college. • “intellectual property” shall mean inventions, college copyrightable works, and tangible results of research. • “invention” shall mean”…any new and useful process, machine, manufacture or composition of matter or any new and useful improvement thereof…” as defined under the patent laws of the united states. • “college copyrightable work” shall mean copyrightable works owned by the college. • “tangible results of research” shall mean a physical embodiment of the research effort, including physical embodiments of any invention, or college copyrightable work which results from college activities by any member of the staff. such tangible results of research shall include, but not be limited to antibodies, cell lines, new microorganisms, plant lines or progeny thereof; recombinant or other biologicalmatters of record https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/311 70 of 85 7/25/23, 12:56 pm materials; integrated circuit chips, computer software, engineering prototypes and drawings, chemical compounds; devices; machines; and models. • “sponsor” shall mean any individual or organization that by written agreement with the college shall finance in whole or part any college activities. • “new revenue” or “annual new royalty” are defined as revenues received from the licensing and developing of an intellectual property after deduction of all costs reasonably attributable to the protection and distribution of such intellectual property, including any reasonable expense of patent or copyright prosecution, maintenance, interference proceedings, litigation, marketing or other dissemination and licensing. net revenues from the following sources are subject to distribution: option fees; up- front licensing fees; licensing payments; milestone payments; or proceeds from the sale of stock or other equity in the licensee company. coverage these policies shall apply as a condition of appointment or employment by the college to every member of the staff who during the period of their appointment or employment by the college shall: (a) conceive or first reduce to practice actually or constructively, any invention; (b) prepare any college copyrightable work; or (c) contribute substantially to the existence of any tangible result of research. disclosure of intellectual property every staff member shall, in writing and in reasonable detail, give the dean of the faculty prompt notice of any: (a) invention; (b) college copyrightable work; or (c) tangible result of research which he or she shall desire to have patented, copyrighted or made available to the investigators or the public by commercial or other means, or shall believe or have reason to believe is patentable, copyrightable, or of value to other investigators or the public, or otherwise of commercial value. ownership inventions. the rights of ownership to all inventions which result from college activities shall be the property of the college; provided, however, that: • within the ninety (90) days next following disclosure of an invention to the college under the preceding section on disclosure of intellectual property (or such further period of time as may be agreed upon by the inventor and the dean of the faculty), the dean of the faculty shall determine, and advise the inventor in writing, whether such rights shall be retained by the college, conditionally retained by the college or shall be released to the inventor; and • the rights of ownership to every invention conceived by any staff member while engaged in other than college activities shall be the property of that person.matters of record https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/311 71 of 85 7/25/23, 12:56 pm copyrightable works. the rights of ownership to all copyrightable works prepared while the staff member is engaged in college activities shall be the property of the college; provided however that: • within the ninety (90) days following disclosure of college copyrightable work to the college under the preceding section on disclosure of intellectual property (or such further period of time as may be agreed upon by the author and the dean of the faculty, the dean of the faculty shall determine, and advise the author, in writing, whether such rights shall be retained by the college, conditionally retained by the college or shall be released to the author; and • copyrightable works prepared by a staff member while engaged in activities other than college activities shall be the property of the author. tangible results of research. all tangible results of research shall be the property of the college. sponsorship of intellectual property the rights of ownership to each item of intellectual property produced during activities conducted pursuant to any agreement between the college and any sponsor shall be determined in accordance with such agreement; however, it shall be the policy of the college to retain title to intellectual property whenever possible under state or federal law. any agreement with a sponsor pertaining to the ownership of intellectual property and assignment thereof shall be made between the college and the sponsor in advance of the research or other activity that produces the intellectual property. disagreements the president shall appoint a committee on intellectual property composed of both faculty members and administrative officers (the dean of the faculty shall serve ex officio). the creator of any intellectual property that is or might be covered under this policy (see above for patents) cannot be a voting member of this committee. this committee shall be the body to whom appeals may be made. whenever legal protection for intellectual property is anticipated all persons engaged in such creative activity are encouraged to keep regular notebooks and records, preferably in the form of bound notebooks that are regularly signed and dated by the inventor(s) as well as periodically signed by one or more witnesses. seeking a patent or copyright whenever the provost shall determine to seek the patenting or copyrighting of any invention or college copyrightable work, the college shall, without expense to the inventor or author provide such professional services as it shall deem to be necessary ormatters of record https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/311 72 of 85 7/25/23, 12:56 pm desirable for such purpose, and which may include the services of an independent patent organization. the inventor or author is obligated to cooperate fully in such effort, including his or her execution of all necessary or desirable agreements, applications, and other forms and instruments. if, at any time subsequently, the college shall terminate its effort to seek such patent or copyright, it shall promptly give written notice thereof to the inventor or author who thereupon to the extent allowed by law or any sponsorship agreement shall be free at his or her expense to develop, license, and otherwise use the invention, patent application, patent or copyright. in this event the inventor or author shall receive all benefits of any development, licensing or other use of the invention, patent application, patent or copyright except that the college shall be entitled to recovery of associated costs. transfer or sale of tangible results of research tangible results of research may not be transferred or sold to any party outside the college before: (a) a disclosure of the tangible results of research has been submitted to the provost and (b) the contributor(s) has been notified by the office of the dean of the faculty of any required conditions of such transfer or sale. such notification shall be made within thirty (30) days following the disclosure of tangible results of research. promotion and licensing in interpreting and applying these policies, the college shall, by such means as it shall deem to be most effective and appropriate in each case, act to bring to the public all intellectual property to which the college has rights of ownership in whole or part. such means may include, but shall not be limited to, agreements for the development, patenting, copyrighting, promotion, licensing, printing, distributing or manufacturing of any intellectual property; and in every case the college shall advise the inventor, author, or contributor of the terms of any such proposed agreement. no agreements will be entered into by the college without the review of all inventors, authors or contributors. any disagreement between the college and the inventor(s), author(s) or contributor(s) concerning a proposed agreement will be resolved in a timely fashion by the committee on intellectual property. proceeds from distribution of intellectual property invention proceeds. subsequent to the college’s recovery of funds that were invested in patenting, marketing or developing intellectual property, the contributor(s) and the college will share in the net revenue received from the contributor’s intellectual property(ies) owned by and licensed from the college. the contributor(s) will receive 50% of the net revenues, and the college will receive 50%. it is understood that one-half of the college’s portion will be for the primary purpose of advancing and encouraging further research and intellectual property development within rhodes college.matters of record https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/311 73 of 85 7/25/23, 12:56 pm in the case of multiple inventors, the inventors’ share will be distributed among the inventors in accordance with a written agreement signed by all inventors; or, if there is no such agreement, all inventors will receive an equal share. if inventorship is shared among college inventors and inventors at one or more other institutions, the college will negotiate with the one or more other institutions concerning exclusive licenses and distribution of revenues. college net revenues from such agreements will be distributed to inventors at the college using the distribution formulae discussed above. copyright proceeds . these will follow the same distribution and stipulations as inventions listed above. tangible results of research proceeds. to the extent allowed by law, where any tangible result of research is not within the scope of the claims of a patent, patent application, or copyright, each contributor shall share in any net revenue or annual net revenue to the same extent a contributor shares in proceeds listed above for inventions and copyrights. sponsors : other organizations if and when any conflict shall arise between these policies and any condition or conditions of (a) any proposed grant from or contract with any organization offering to act as a sponsor or (b) the patent, copyright or intellectual property policies and procedures of any other organization to which any joint appointment or any affiliation or consulting agreement is made, such conflict shall be referred to the committee on intellectual property. following consideration of the conflict the committee shall recommend a course of action to the college administration. it is incumbent on the college to take all reasonable steps, including but not limited to appropriate legal action, to protect and advocate issues on its behalf and those of the inventor, author or contributor in the event of a conflict with a sponsor. release of rights ownership the office of the dean of the faculty may, for reasons and upon terms deemed to be satisfactory by its office, release on behalf of the college at any time any invention, patent, patent application, college copyrightable work, copyright or right of ownership to tangible results of research to its inventor, author or contributor. copyright within higher education, it has been the prevailing academic practice to treat the faculty member as the copyright owner of works that are created independently and at the faculty member’s own initiative for traditional academic purposes. examples include, but are not limited to, class notes and syllabi, books and articles, works of fiction and nonfiction,matters of record https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/311 74 of 85 7/25/23, 12:56 pm poems and dramatic works, musical and choreographic works, pictorial, graphic, and sculptural works, computer programs, computer-generated works, and educational software (commonly known as “courseware”). this practice has been followed for the most part, regardless of the physical medium in which these “traditional academic works” appear, that is, whether on paper or in audiovisual or electronic form. this practice should also ordinarily apply to the development of courseware for use in programs of distance education. situations do arise, however, in which the college may fairly claim ownership of, or an interest in, copyright in works created by faculty members. three general kinds of projects fall into this category: special works created in circumstances that may properly be regarded as “made for hire,” negotiated contractual transfers, and joint works” as described in the copyright act. works made for hire. although traditional academic work that is copyrightable—such as lecture notes and courseware, books, and articles—cannot normally be treated as works made for hire, some works created by college faculty members do properly fall within that category, allowing the institution to claim copyright ownership. works created as a specific requirement of employment or as an assigned institutional duty that may, for example, be included in a written job description or an employment agreement, may be fairly deemed works made for hire. even absent such prior written specification, ownership will vest with the college or university in those cases in which it provides the specific authorization or supervision for the preparation of the work. examples are reports prepared by a dean or by the chair or members of a faculty committee, or college promotional brochures prepared by a director of admissions. the copyright act also defines as a “work made for hire” certain works that are commissioned from one who is not an employee but an “independent contractor.” the institution will own the copyright in such a commissioned work when the author is not a college employee, or when the author is such a faculty member but the work to be created falls outside the normal scope of that person’s employment duties (such as a professor of art history commissioned by the institution under special contract to write a catalog for a campus art gallery). in such situations, for the work-made-for-hire doctrine to apply there must be a written agreement so stating and signed by both parties; the work must also fall within a limited number of statutory categories, which include instructional texts, examinations, and contributions to a collective work. contractual transfers. in situations in which the copyright ownership is held by the faculty member, it is possible for the individual to transfer the entire copyright, or a more limited license, to the college or to a third party. as already noted, under the copyright act, a transfer of all of the copyright or of an exclusive right must be reflected in a signed document in order to be valid. when, for example, a work is prepared pursuant to a program of “sponsored research” accompanied by a monetary grant from a third party, a contract signed by the faculty member providing that copyright will be owned by the college will be enforceable. similarly, the college may reasonably request that the faculty member—when entering into an agreement granting the copyright or publishing rights to amatters of record https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/311 75 of 85 7/25/23, 12:56 pm third party—make efforts to reserve to the institution the right to use the work in its internally administered programs of teaching, research, and public service on a perpetual, royalty-free, nonexclusive basis. joint works. under certain circumstances, two or more persons may share copyright ownership of a work, notably when it is a “joint work.” the most familiar example of a joint work is a book or article written, fully collaboratively, by two academic colleagues. each is said to be a “co-owner” of the copyright, with each having all the usual rights of the copyright owner provided that any income from such uses is shared with the other. in rare situations it may be proper to treat a work as a product of the joint authorship of the faculty member and the college, so that both have a shared interest in the copyright. whoever owns the copyright, the college may reasonably require reimbursement for any unusual financial or technical support. (“unusual financial or technical support” is defined as follows: extensive un-reimbursed use of major college laboratory, studio, or computational facilities, or human resources. the use of these facilities must be important to the creation of the intellectual property; merely incidental use of a facility does not constitute substantial use, or does extensive use of a facility commonly available to all faculty or professional staff (such as libraries and offices), nor does extensive use of a specialized facility for routine tasks. use will be considered “unusual” and facilities will be considered “major” if similar use facilities would cost the creator more than $5,000 (five thousand dollars) in constant 1984 dollars if purchased or leased in the public marketplace. creators wishing to reimburse the college for the use of its facilities must make arrangements to do so before the level of facilities usage for a particular intellectual property becomes substantial as defined.) that reimbursement might take the form of future royalties or a nonexclusive, royalty-free license to use the work for internal educational and administrative purposes. this means that the course developer and the college must reach an understanding about the conditions of portability and commercialization of faculty work developed using substantial college resources. ordinarily, such an understanding will be recorded in a written agreement between the course developer and the college on a course-by-course basis. printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/matters-record/intellectual-property rhodes presbyterian history and liberal arts heritage rhodes’ relation to the presbyterian church has remained close and unbroken since 1855. the most recent expression of the college’s relationship to the church may be found in a covenant statement between rhodes and the church, summarized as follows: rhodes is a liberal arts college associated with the presbyterian church (u.s.a.). the college has a covenant relationship with the synod of living waters (tennessee, mississippi, alabama, kentucky).matters of record https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/311 76 of 85 7/25/23, 12:56 pm rhodes, as a church-related college whose primary mission is to educate, guarantees freedom of inquiry for faculty and students. the college, without pressing for acceptance, maintains a climate in which the christian faith is nurtured. the curriculum includes a variety of courses in bible and religion that explore the judeo-christian heritage and its implications for the whole of life. students are required to study the bible and its relationship with history and culture as a part of their college work. as an academic community founded on christian ideals, rhodes expresses personal concern for students, provides opportunities for corporate worship, and maintains a commitment to social justice and human mercy. more specifically, the educational purpose of the college is expressed in its maintenance of an environment for the pursuit of truth in which it is ensured that the christian faith is clearly articulated, that its formative role in western civilization is carefully considered, and that honest intellectual and moral questions are articulated and responded to intelligently and sensitively. this commitment is made clear in a resolution adopted by the board of trustees of the college: it is the intention of the board that the college substantially complies with requiring twelve credits of sound and comprehensive study of the bible for the granting of a degree. in keeping with this resolution and with the mission of the college, the foundations requirement is structured so that there are two ways available to students to complete this part of the degree program. students may choose the course the search for values in the light of western history and religion or the life: then and now program. printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/matters-record/rhodes-presbyterian-history-and- liberal-arts-heritage the campus the following alphabetical listing of rhodes buildings includes functions of these facilities and the names of those who made the buildings possible. thirteen campus buildings and two permanent gateways are listed on the national register of historic places. the alburty swimming complex, given through the generosity of the late e. a. (bob) and emily beale alburty, was dedicated may, 1977. the ashner gateway* is a memorial to i. w. and sallie ashner, established by mrs. julius goodman and mrs. ike gronauer of memphis. bailey lane, the north campus drive between snowden street and charles place, was named in 1998 for memphian edgar h. bailey, rhodes life trustee, and his wife ann pridgen bailey, class of 1947, in grateful appreciation of their vision, generosity andmatters of record https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/311 77 of 85 7/25/23, 12:56 pm devoted service to rhodes. paul barret, jr. library, made possible by a major gift from the paul barret, jr. trust, opened in august 2005. paul barret, jr., a graduate of the class of 1946 who died in 1999, was the nephew of mr. and mrs. a.k. burrow, who provided for the construction of the 1953 burrow library. bellingrath residence hall* was dedicated october 18, 1961, in memory of dr. walter d. bellingrath, mobile, alabama, a long-time friend and benefactor of the college. blount hall, a residence hall completed in 1986, was dedicated on october 17, 1996 in recognition of carolyn and wynton malcolm blount as distinguished leaders, benefactors and friends of rhodes. boyle court, provided by the employees of boyle investment company in memory of chairman emeritus j. bayard boyle, sr., was dedicated january 23, 1997. in 1998, as part of the 150th anniversary celebration of rhodes, a time capsule was buried in boyle court, to be opened in 2048. thomas w. briggs hall, previously the thomas w. briggs student center, was provided through the generosity of the late mr. and mrs. thomas w. briggs of memphis, augmented by gifts of parents and other friends, and dedicated may 2, 1966. it houses the computer science department and campus-wide meeting spaces. the bryan campus life center, dedicated january 23, 1997, was given in honor of catherine wilkerson bryan by her four children, john henry bryan, jr. '58, caroline bryan harrell, family of catherine bryan dill, george wilkerson bryan and by bryan foods of west point, mississippi, co-founded by her husband, the late john henry bryan, sr. the center encompasses a performance gymnasium, a three-court multiuse gymnasium, racquetball and squash courts, a state of the art fitness room, an indoor jogging track and accommodations for student social events, lectures and other campus occasions. other activity areas include: • the l. palmer brown lynx lair, a student recreation area housing the snack bar, billiards and other game rooms, tv viewing and lounge areas. • the brenda and lester crain reception hall provides elegant accommodations for campus social events and other special occasions. • the dunavant tennis complex, the gift of dr. tommie s. and william b. dunavant, jr., includes ten lighted courts and stadium seating built to ncaa national tournament standards. • the william neely mallory memorial gymnasium is the site of rhodes’ intercollegiate athletic events. it was dedicated december 10, 1954, in memory of major william neely mallory, memphis, who was killed in an airplane crash in italy on february 19, 1945. major mallory became a member of the board of directors of rhodes in 1937,matters of record https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/311 78 of 85 7/25/23, 12:56 pm and in 1938 became treasurer of the college, which office he held at the time of his death. • the mccallum ballroom is named in honor of virginia j. and robert d. mccallum, chair of rhodes board of trustees from 1969 to 1981. • the ruth sherman hyde gymnasium, made possible by gifts of the j. r. hyde family, was dedicated march 17, 1971. it now houses three racquetball courts and an aerobics/dance studio. • crain field, home of the rhodes football and lacrosse teams, was recently renovated with state-of-the-art fieldturf provided by a gift from brenda and j. lester crain, jr. '51. the field was dedicated in 2012 in honor of his father, j. lester crain, sr. '29. • fargason field, the original athletic playing fields on campus, was the gift to the college of about 15 acres of land owned by mr. john t. fargason and his sister mrs. mary fargason falls. their generosity and name are now reflected in the collection of fields for varsity sports located to the north of the william neely mallory gymnasium. • jerden field for intramurals and club sports is named in honor of jane and j.l. jerden '59. • mason field for field hockey was dedicated in 2013 thanks to the generosity of the mason family. • solomon field which serves as a practice field, was dedicated in 1994 in memory of the winning college football player and all-round outstanding athlete craig r. solomon '79. • stauffer field at irwin lainoff stadium, home of the rhodes varsity baseball team, was named in 1977 in honor of frederic r. stauffer, professor of physics for 26 years and college baseball coach for 10 years. renovations completed by the 2009 season gave the college one of the finest baseball facilities in ncaa division iii, including the irwin lainoff stadium, thanks to riea and steven lainoff and other donors. • the winston wolfe track and field complex was dedicated in 2010 in honor of winston wolfe, an entrepreneur, athlete, philanthropist, and loyal friend of rhodes college. buckman hall was named in honor of mertie w. buckman and the late stanley j. buckman and their family. it houses the departments of international studies, economics and business administration, political science, language laboratory, and the wynton m. blount lecture hall. the building features daughdrill tower, which honors president and mrs. james h. daughdrill, jr. and was provided anonymously by an alumna-trustee of the college. the building was dedicated october 24, 1991. adrienne mcmillan burns memorial labyrinth, given in 2005 in memory of the class of 1988 alumna. burrow hall,* formerly the college library, was given through the generosity of the late mr.matters of record https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/311 79 of 85 7/25/23, 12:56 pm and mrs. a. k. burrow, memphis, and dedicated october 8, 1953. it was renovated in 1988 and again in 2008 when it reopened as the burrow center for student opportunity. burrow hall contains the alburty room, named in honor of rhodes trustee the late e. a. alburty, and the pearce conference room for career services, international education and fellowships, provided by elizabeth roe pearce '91. the catherine burrow refectory named in honor of the late mrs. a. k. burrow, memphis, is the college’s main dining facility. it encompasses: • the davis room, named in honor of the late thomas b. davis of memphis. • the hugh m. neely hall,* the original dining hall on campus, dedicated on november 13, 1928. it was provided through the generosity and affection of the late mrs. mary sneed neely as a memorial to her husband hugh m. neely, a heroic soldier and public-spirited citizen. • the margaret ruffin hyde hall,* built in 1958 and dedicated in 1993 in honor of the late dr. margaret r. hyde, class of 1934, benefactor and trustee of the college. • rollow hall, built in 1987, and dedicated on oct 26, 2002, by ann rollow ross '52 in memory of her parents, john ’26 and louise mayo rollow '30, and her sister lisa rollow justis '55. renovations to burrow refectory, completed in 2012 provided 19,000 square feet of additional space. the expanded facility includes a spacious exhibition-style servery, three new private dining rooms, including the president's dining room, given by dr. randall r. rhea '77, in honor of president and mrs. william troutt and: • the lillian goldman hall provided by the lillian goldman charitable trust, amy goldman fowler and cary fowler '71. • the wilson fireside lounge, provided through the generosity of becky and spence wilson. the s. dewitt clough hall, erected in memory of s. dewitt clough of chicago, houses the departments of anthropology/sociology and psychology. the clough-hanson gallery and the department of art are located in the hugo h. dixon wing. clough hall was dedicated october 14, 1970. a major renovation was completed in august 2013 to provide additional classrooms and office space. claire markham collins meditation garden, given 2005 by the family of garnet j. caldwell '05 in memory of the class of 1981 alumna. craddock quad, a gift of he craddock family, was named in 2014. the quad is bounded by west village, glassell hall, catherine burrow refectory and moore moore infirmary. dan davis court was named in 2004 in memory of rhodes benefactor and friend dan w. davis, 1923-2002. the court is bounded by robb hall, catherine burrow refectory and berthold s. kennedy hall.matters of record https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/311 80 of 85 7/25/23, 12:56 pm james h. daughdrill, jr. meditation garden, dedicated april 28, 1999. located to the south of fisher garden, the daughdrill meditation garden is a gift of the students of rhodes. diehl court, dedicated on october 8, 1983, was provided by the class of 1933 in gratitude to charles e. diehl, president 1917-1949, and to his devoted administrative assistant erma reese solomon. the sculpture of president diehl is by the artist edwin rust. east village, consisting of buildings a and b, was opened in august 2001, and provides apartment-styled living areas for juniors and seniors. east village includes a lodge that provides space for recreation and meetings. ellett residence hall* was dedicated december 18, 1956, in memory of dr. e. c. ellett, memphis, an alumnus of rhodes. the frazier jelke science center, housing the department of biology, was dedicated october 19, 1968, in memory of mr. frazier jelke of new york. the plaza atop the frazier jelke science center was re-landscaped in 2015. the hubert f. fisher memorial garden was provided in 1941 by mrs. hubert f. fisher as a memorial to her husband, congressman fisher. the garden with its permanent stone stage is the scene of commencement exercises and other college functions. alfred c. glassell residence hall was dedicated may 2, 1968, in memory of alfred c. glassell of shreveport, louisiana, an alumnus of rhodes and a member of its board of trustees 1929-1938 and 1943-1958. gooch hall,* was erected in 1962 and dedicated on october 22, 1981, in memory of boyce alexander and cecil milton gooch. the building adjoins southwestern hall and the richard halliburton memorial tower and houses the office of finance and business affairs, the offices of the academic deans, and ancient mediterranean studies. the richard halliburton memorial tower,* provided by the late mr. and mrs. wesley halliburton, memphis, parents of the distinguished world traveler and author, was dedicated october 17, 1962.the first floor reception area formerly contained cases for exhibits selected from the jessie l. clough art memorial for teaching. a portion of the funds required for its construction was provided by the late s. dewitt clough and his wife, rachel clough, of chicago. on october 11, 2011, the renovated reception area was dedicated as the nancy hill fulmer president's office, named in honor of the 1951 alumna and former trustee. the frank m. harris memorial building,* provided by the generosity of the late mrs. nannie p. harris, memphis, as a perpetual memorial to her beloved son, frank m. harris, was dedicated june 6, 1938. the building currently houses the mike curb institute formatters of record https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/311 81 of 85 7/25/23, 12:56 pm music, founded in 2006 through a generous gift from the mike curb family foundation. hassell hall, housing the music department, was a gift of the hassell family of clifton, tennessee, and other friends and alumni of rhodes. it contains the tuthill performance hall, dedicated in 2003 and named in memory of burnet c. tuthill, the college’s first director of music. the building was dedicated on april 27, 1984. the hunt gateway* is a memorial to captain william ireys hunt, m.d., class of 1934. the gift of the first presbyterian church, greenville, mississippi, this memorial was dedicated on may 31, 1948. berthold s. kennedy hall,* erected in 1925, was remodeled in 1968 to house the department of chemistry. it was dedicated on october 19, 1968 in honor of rhodes alumnus dr. berthold s. kennedy, of anna maria, florida. dorothy c. king hall, formerly the national headquarters for pi kappa alpha fraternity, is named in honor of rhodes’ long-time friend and benefactor and houses the meeman center for lifelong learning and the offices of development and alumni. in 2014, the southwest room was renamed the edmund orgill room, in honor of the former memphis mayor and college trustee. the edward b. lemaster memorial gateway, a symbol of the close ties between the college and the city of memphis, was dedicated in 1983 to the memory of the prominent memphian who was instrumental in the college’s move to memphis. the mccoy theatre, given by the mccoy foundation, established by the late harry b. mccoy, jr., memphis, in memory of his parents, minetry and harry mccoy, was dedicated on january 21, 1982. renovations which began in 2005 doubled the mccoy theatre in size, adding the mccoy studio which is a second black-box theatre, and provided set construction, wardrobe design and storage space, as well as classrooms and theatre faculty offices. the new construction officially opened on september 7, 2006. originally converted from a zeta tau alpha sorority house, the intimate mccoy theatre was named in honor of the late harry mccoy, a memphis real estate developer who died in 1966. the harry b. mccoy foundation funded the original renovations as well as the new addition. mcneill concert hall was dedicated on february 19, 2017 in honor of mary and phillip h. mcneill in appreciation of the generosity of mabel and phil mcneill. located on the west campus, mcneill concert hall hosts many of the college's premier concerts, lectures and special events. the moore moore infirmary,* made possible through a bequest of the late dr. moore moore, sr., beloved college physician and secretary of the board of directors from 1925 until his death june 28, 1957, was dedicated june 2, 1962, as a memorial to his wife, ethel shirley moore.matters of record https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/311 82 of 85 7/25/23, 12:56 pm ohlendorf hall, erected in 1968, was dedicated july 2, 1996, in honor of rhodes trustee harold f. ohlendorf, class of 1931, and his wife bruce in grateful appreciation of their service to the college. the building houses the department of mathematics and computer science and the buckman mathematics library, dedicated october 19, 1968, the gift of the late dr. stanley buckman and his associates at buckman laboratories, inc. phillips lane, the front entrance to the campus, was named in 1994 in honor of weetie and harry phillips of memphis and in grateful appreciation of their vision, generosity and devoted service to rhodes. the physical plant building, erected in 1999, houses physical plant offices and the purchasing department. the frances falls austin conference room and office complex, given in memory of his mother by memphis business and civic leader falls austin, was dedicated in december, 2003. the peyton nalle rhodes tower, erected in 1968, is named in honor of rhodes professor of physics (1926-1949), president (1949-1965) and president emeritus (1965). the building houses the department of physics and was dedicated on april 23, 1981. a complete renovation was begun in 2014 and the building was reopened in may, 2015. the renovations include the brenda and j. lester crain,jr. '51 astronomy and astrophysics laboratory. in addition, the gladney lounge and the taylor-hopper seminar room, were given through the generosity of dr. john gladney '74. robb residence hall* was named in memory of lt. col. albert robb, attorney, who was a member of the board of directors of stewart college at the time the presbyterian church assumed control of montgomery masonic college in 1855. in 1859, he donated the land on which the first residence for male students was erected in clarksville, tennessee, where rhodes was located until 1925. robertson hall, completed in 2017, was dedicated in honor of lola ’33 and charles robertson, sr. ’29 in appreciation of the generosity of patricia and charles robertson, jr. ’65. it houses the biology and chemistry departments. robinson hall, completed in 1985, also serves as one of the college’s primary summer conference residence facilities and contains space for 84 residents. it was dedicated on december 17, 1989, in memory of james d. robinson, memphis business leader, founder of auto-chlor, inc. the rollow avenue of oaks, dedicated in 1976, were planted south of southwestern hall as seedlings brought from the clarksville campus by alumnus and college engineer john a. rollow, class of 1926. southwestern hall was named april 12, 2019. southwestern hall was formerly called palmer hall,* named in honor of the contributions of dr. benjamin morgan palmer, who formatters of record https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/311 83 of 85 7/25/23, 12:56 pm many years was the pastor of the first presbyterian church, new orleans. the building was originally dedicated november 27, 1925. southwestern hall is home to classrooms, administrative offices and the hardie auditorium. in 2010, after extensive renovation, southwestern hall became the home of faculty who teach courses in languages and literature. spann place, completed in 1987, was named in honor of the late jeanette s. spann, class of 1930 and honorary trustee of the college. this complex comprises five townhouses for innovative student housing. stewart residence hall, formerly a faculty residence, is a student residence hall which was most recently renovated in 2001. the building is named for william n. stewart, a former president and important leader in the early history of rhodes college. thomas lane, between ashner gateway and kennedy hall, was named in 1997 to honor nancy and james a. thomas iii, class of 1962, in recognition of their generosity and service to rhodes. margaret townsend residence hall was dedicated june 3,1961, in honor of margaret huxtable townsend, a member of the rhodes faculty from 1918 to 1954, and who was rhodes’ first dean of women, serving in that capacity from 1925 to 1952. a conservatory for meetings and recreation was added in 2002 and is located in a courtyard formed by townsend, trezevant and voorhies halls. suzanne trezevant residence hall, given by edward h. little in memory of his wife, suzanne trezevant little, was dedicated on november 18, 1966. the bill and carole troutt quad, honoring the college’s 19th president and first lady, was dedicated in 2017. the quad is bounded by the paul barret, jr. library, robertson hall, briggs hall, and hassell hall. voorhies residence hall, provided through the generosity of the late mrs. emma denie voorhies, memphis, was dedicated april 10, 1948. lee b. wailes court, bounded by halliburton tower, robb hall, white hall and ashner gateway, is named in grateful recognition of the generosity of lee b. wailes, class of 1929, and was dedicated september 23, 1988. west village rhodes newest residence hall, was opened in august, 2012. west village houses 141 upper-class students in twenty-two deluxe suites. gordon white residence hall,* a memorial to dr. gordon white, established by his sister, the late mrs. lizzie gordon white hood, nashville, tennessee, was dedicated november 13, 1947.matters of record https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/311 84 of 85 7/25/23, 12:56 pm the williams prayer room, an intimate chapel in voorhies hall, was given in memory of john whorton and anna fletcher williams by their children sallie p. and susan fletcher williams. it was dedicated on april 10, 1948. anne marie caskey williford residence hall, erected in 1969, was dedicated april 23, 1980, in memory of anne marie williford, class of 1952, who was dean of women (1968-1975) and dean of students from july 1, 1975, until her death july 19, 1979. * listed on the national register of historic places, the official federal list of districts, sites, buildings, structures, and objects significant in american history, architecture, archeology, engineering, and culture. printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/matters-record/campusmatters of record https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/311 85 of 85 7/25/23, 12:56 pm home »the educational program published on rhodes college: rhodes catalogue (https://catalog.rhodes.edu/) the educational program printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/educational-program academic partnerships there are some students who desire the benefit of an undergraduate education in the liberal arts and sciences prior to pursuing a more technical or specialized degree and career. such students are able to take advantage of several dual degree or second degree programs arranged between rhodes and other universities. for those students who are interested in pursuing studies in engineering, rhodes offers three dual degree programs. dual bachelor’s degree programs are offered in cooperation with washington university in st. louis and christian brothers university (memphis). masters programs in electrical engineering and biomedical engineering are offered in cooperation with the university of memphis. there is also a bs/bs/ms program available through washington university. students outside the science disciplines are also encouraged to combine those studies with engineering. the coordinator of these programs at rhodes is dr. ann viano (department of physics), and students interested in pursuing a dual degree engineering program should meet with her as early as possible in their college careers. in addition to dual degree programs, rhodes also provides opportunities for students to plan for post baccalaureate study within the medical sciences. these opportunities, through the george washington school of medicine and vanderbilt university are coordinated by ms. jessica kelso. dual degree engineering programs bachelor or master of science in engineering at washington university in st. louis students can spend three or four years at rhodes, and then, after acceptance to the mckelvey school of engineering at washington university, complete two or three years ofthe educational program https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/77 1 of 52 7/25/23, 12:56 pm engineering study. in the dual bachelor's degree program, the student receives two degrees, a bs (or ba) from rhodes and a bs from washington university after completing a 3-2 or 4-2 plan (three or four years at rhodes followed by two years at washington university). the student who pursues a rhodes major in the humanities, social sciences, or fine arts will generally complete the rhodes portion in four years, applying elective hours to the dual degree core requirements. students can also opt for a 3-3 plan that results in a bs from rhodes and both a bs and ms from washington university. financial aid does not transfer from rhodes to washington university for any of the programs described above, but the student can apply for aid from washington university. more information about the dual degree options with washington university can be found here: https://engineering.wustl.edu/academics/dual-degree-program /index.html to satisfy the rhodes graduation requirements and the entrance requirements to washington university, all students must do the following: 1. satisfy all rhodes foundations requirements as described earlier in this section of the catalog. 2. take the following core courses required for admission into the mckelvey school of engineering at washington university: mathematics 112 (if necessary), 122, 223, 251; chemistry 120, 125; physics 111, 113, 112, 114; computer science 141. ◦ for biomedical engineering add the following core courses: biology 130, 131, 140, 141; a 2nd semester of general chemistry with lab. ◦ for chemical engineering add the following core courses: biology 130, 131; a 2nd semester of general chemistry with lab. 3. complete the modified major requirements at rhodes (if the chosen major is one listed below). if the rhodes major is not one listed below, all major requirements listed in the rhodes catalog for the chosen major must be fulfilled, including senior seminar. ◦ chemistry major/chemical engineering: chemistry 211, 212, 240, 311, 312. ◦ physics major/biomedical engineering: physics 211, 250, 305, 304 or 307; biology 140, 141. ◦ physics major/electrical engineering: physics 211, 250, 301, 302, 304, 307 or 325. ◦ physics major/mechanical engineering: physics 211, 250, 304, 305, 307. ◦ computer science major/computer engineering: computer science 142, 241,the educational program https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/77 2 of 52 7/25/23, 12:56 pm plus one of cs 330, 335, 355 or 360; mathematics 201, and either mathematics 311 or 370. ◦ mathematics major/system science and mathematics: mathematics 201, 261, 311, 370, 465. 4. maintain a gpa (math/science and overall) of 3.25 at rhodes for acceptance into the bs/bs program or 3.50 for the bs/ms program at the washington university. bachelor of science in engineering at christian brothers university this dual degree program is a 3-2 year plan of study that results in a bachelor of science from rhodes and bachelor of science in engineering from christian brothers university at the completion of five years of study. the student spends three years at rhodes and completes all foundation requirements and the modified major requirements listed below for a major in physics, chemistry, or biochemistry/molecular biology, depending on the course of engineering to be pursued. the student may also take select courses at christian brothers university during this time. the student applies to the engineering program at christian brothers university during the third year and becomes a full-time cbu student for two additional years. financial aid does not transfer from rhodes to christian brothers university. to satisfy the rhodes graduation requirements and the entrance requirements to christian brothers university, all students must complete the following: 1. all rhodes foundation requirements with the following stipulations: ◦ one of the f1 courses should be a philosophy course. ◦ a minimum of 80 credits of the rhodes bs portion must be fulfilled with rhodes courses. 2. the following pre-engineering core courses: ◦ physics 111, 112, 113, 114 ◦ math 112 (if necessary), 122, 223, 251 ◦ chemistry 120, 125 3. the following additional rhodes courses depending on the rhodes major and course of engineering study to be pursued at christian brothers university. courses in parentheses are cbu courses that are suitable substitutes for the rhodes courses and will satisfy the major requirements at rhodes:the educational program https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/77 3 of 52 7/25/23, 12:56 pm ◦ physics major/mechanical engineering: physics 211, 250, 304 (or cbu ece 221), 305 (or cbu me 202), 306 (or cbu program option course); computer science 141 (or cbu me 112) ◦ physics major/civil engineering: physics 211, 213, 250, 304 (or cbu ece 221), 305 (or cbu me 202), 406 (or cbu me 305); computer science 141 (or cbu ce 112) ◦ physics major/electrical engineering – electrical engineering curriculum: physics 211, 213, 250, 406 (or cbu me 305), one upper level physics elective at the 300 level or higher; computer science 141 (or cbu ece 172) ◦ chemistry major/chemical engineering- chemical engineering curriculum: chemistry 211, 212, 240, 311, 312 ◦ biochemistry molecular biology major/chemical engineering- biochemical engineering curriculum: biology 130, 131, 140. 141, 307, 325; biochemistry and molecular biology 310; chemistry 211, 212, 240, 414 4. the following cbu courses should be taken during the first three years of the program through the rhodes-cbu exchange program (the crosstown agreement), depending on the rhodes major and course of engineering study to be pursued at christian brothers university: ◦ physics major/mechanical engineering: me 121, me 305 ◦ physics major/civil engineering: ce 105, math 308 ◦ physics major/electrical engineering - electrical engineering curriculum: ece 221, ece 222 ◦ chemistry major or biochemistry & molecular biology major/chemical engineering – either curriculum: che 231, che 232 5. a minimum gpa of 2.5 at the time of application to christian brothers university is required. only grades of “c” or higher will transfer to christian brothers university (“c-” and lower do not transfer). master of science in biomedical engineering at the university of memphis / university of tennessee this accelerated program serves students who are interested in completing a master ofthe educational program https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/77 4 of 52 7/25/23, 12:56 pm science degree in biomedical engineering (bme) and ideally are advanced in math and science at the start of their rhodes career. students who participate in this program complete both bs and ms degrees in five years. the typical student in this program takes three years of coursework at rhodes, and then completes two years of coursework and masters thesis research in the joint program in biomedical engineering at the university of memphis / university of tennessee. all students become eligible for graduate assistantships after the completion of their undergraduate coursework. the graduate assistantship includes a full tuition (for graduate courses only)-and-fees scholarship and may include a monthly salary. students can apply for this program once they have reached sophomore standing and have completed one semester of coursework. applications consist of an application form, one letter of reference and a copy of the student’s transcript. each applicant will be required to complete an interview with a pre-graduate advisor. in order to remain in the program past the junior year, students must maintain a gpa of at least 3.25. the following requirements must be met to earn the two degrees: 1. complete all foundation requirements for the rhodes degree. 2. complete the following core courses: mathematics 112 (if necessary), 122, 223, 251; computer science 141; chemistry 120, 125; physics 111, 112, 113, 114 3. complete the following requirements for the specific major chosen at rhodes ◦ for the chemistry major: chemistry 211, 212, 240, 311, 312; physics 304*, 305*. ◦ for the physics major: physics 211, 213, two approved courses at the 300-level or higher*; a second semester of general chemistry from an institution offering a year-long introductory chemistry sequence 4. complete the following additional undergraduate requirements at the university of memphis: ◦ biomechanical engineering 2810 (introduction to biomechanics/mechanics of materials) ◦ mechanics 3331 (mechanics of fluids) ◦ *if physics 304 has not been taken, add eece 2201 (circuit analysis i). if physics 305 has not been taken, add mechanics 2332 (dynamics). these courses will be transferred to rhodes. additional undergraduate credits in mathematics, science, or engineering may be transferred to meet requirement 5 below.the educational program https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/77 5 of 52 7/25/23, 12:56 pm 5. complete the number of credits required for the rhodes bachelor’s degree (from the first three years at rhodes plus undergraduate courses transferred from um). successful completion of requirements 1-5 is necessary to fulfill the requirements for the b.s. degree. 6. complete the following graduate courses at the university of memphis and/or the university of tennessee: ◦ biom 7209 (measurements and instrumentation) ◦ biom 7101 (biomedical engineering analysis i) ◦ biom 7004, 7005 (life science i, ii) ◦ biom 7996, minimum 6 credits (ms thesis) ◦ one additional graduate mathematics elective course and three additional graduate engineering elective courses. these elective courses are selected in consultation with the graduate advisor. ◦ enrollment in the bme seminar/professional development course(s) is also required. ◦ students are expected to complete an oral thesis defense. master of science in electrical engineering at the university of memphis this program serves students who are interested in completing a bachelor’s degree with a major in physics from rhodes and a master of science degree in electrical engineering from the university of memphis. students who participate in this program receive both degrees after five years. the typical student in this program takes three years of coursework at rhodes, followed by two years of coursework and research at the university of memphis. all students become eligible for graduate assistantships after the completion of their undergraduate coursework. the typical graduate assistantship includes a full tuition-and-fees scholarship and a monthly salary. students can apply for this program once they have reached sophomore standing and have completed one semester of course work beyond the first year. in order to remain in the program past the junior year, students must maintain a gpa of at least 3.25. the following requirements must be met to earn the two degrees: 1. complete all rhodes foundation requirements for the bachelor’s degree.the educational program https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/77 6 of 52 7/25/23, 12:56 pm 2. complete the following rhodes courses: mathematics 112 (if necessary), 122, 223, 251; computer science 141; physics 111, 112, 113, 114, physics 250, physics 304 (or equivalent) 3. complete the following additional rhodes courses (or equivalents) to complete the physics major at rhodes: physics 211, 213, 301, 302 4. complete 128 credits of undergraduate coursework from rhodes, the university of memphis, and any other institutions. 5. complete the following graduate courses for the planned electrical engineering option: ◦ memphis signals and systems option ▪ an additional 18 graduate credits ▪ 6 credits of eece 7996 (thesis) ▪ eece 7251 (random signals and noise) ▪ eece 6235 (probabilistic systems analysis) ▪ eece 3211 (electronics i) ▪ eece 3204 (signals and systems ii) ▪ eece 3203 (signals and systems i) ◦ memphis power option ▪ eece 3201 (circuit analysis ii) ▪ eece 3203 (signals and systems i) ▪ eece 4201 (energy conversion) ▪ eece 6235 (probabilistic systems analysis) ▪ eece 7251 (random signals and noise) ▪ 6 credits of eece 7996 (thesis) ▪ an additional 15 graduate credits 6. the following courses or their equivalents are suggested as prerequisites to thethe educational program https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/77 7 of 52 7/25/23, 12:56 pm university of memphis portion of the program: eece 2222 (digital circuits), eece 2201 (circuit analysis i) second degree programs george washington school of medicine early assurance program qualified sophomores can apply for a commitment for acceptance to the george washington school of medicine following their graduation from rhodes. this program allows students to use all four years at rhodes to take prerequisite courses that would normally need to be completed in the first three years of college if going straight to medical school. this agreement allows a student to more easily study abroad or take part in special semester programs and projects while working towards a career in medicine. the contact person for this program is ms. jessica kelso. university of tennessee health science center bsn and doctor of nursing practice admission agreement rhodes students are eligible for guaranteed admission to the university of tennessee health science center college of nursing to pursue training as a registered nurse and a nurse practitioner. students also have the option of completing a phd in nursing. this guaranteed admission pathway includes an accelerated 12 month bsn followed by training for certification and licensure as a family nurse practitioner or one of several other advanced nursing specialties. the contact person for this program is ms. jessica kelso. vanderbilt university master of science in nursing prerequisite agreement the vanderbilt school of nursing, in agreement with rhodes college, allows for all but one of their program’s prerequisite courses to be completed with rhodes course work. an additional online nutrition course is needed. the vanderbilt school of nursing offers an accelerated path to master’s level advanced practice nursing, i.e. to become a nurse practitioner or midwife. the contact person for this path is ms. jessica kelso. georgetown university master of arts in latin american studies rhodes students are eligible to apply for a five-year cooperative degree program offered by georgetown university’s center for latin american studies (clas). the program allows undergraduates with a demonstrated commitment to latin american studies the opportunity to earn a bachelor’s degree and a master of arts in latin american studies in five years. dr. elizabeth pettinaroli is the contact person for information on thisthe educational program https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/77 8 of 52 7/25/23, 12:56 pm opportunity. printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/educational-program/academic-partnerships academic regulations the board of trustees vests responsibility for curriculum, instruction, and the regulation of academic affairs with the president and the faculty. they in turn allocate this responsibility and implement it through various committees and individuals. three committees are chiefly responsible for regulating the academic program. the educational program committee, which includes students in its membership, is responsible for the overall academic program, including requirements for the degree and departmental offerings. the foundations curriculum committee, which also includes students in its membership, is responsible for the overseeing coursework that satisfies foundations requirements. the standards and standing committee has broad responsibility, subject to faculty review, to frame and implement procedures to insure that the instructional standards and aims of the college are met. the regulations that follow are not comprehensive but are included here for the sake of easy reference by faculty and students. any variation from academic regulations requires the formal approval of the faculty. students submit requests for variations from academic regulations to the appropriate faculty committees that make recommendations to the faculty. requests for reconsideration of faculty decisions in light of new evidence will be considered by the committees making the initial recommendations. registration and course load all students are required to register for classes during the pre-registration/registration processes held prior to the first day of classes each semester. no late registrations will be accepted after the end of the drop/add period in any semester or summer term. fall or spring semester registration and course load qualification as a full-time, degree student requires registration for a minimum of twelve (12) credits in a semester. a normal course load for a full-time student is 16 credits. registration for fewer than 12 or more than 19 credits by a full-time student must be approved in advance by the standards and standing committee. students must be aware that in order to earn the total credits for a degree, sixteen credits in each of the eight semesters is needed. less than 16 credits in any one semester must be matched by more than 16 credits in another semester or by summer session credits. degree-seeking students who register for eleven (11) credits or less in any one semesterthe educational program https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/77 9 of 52 7/25/23, 12:56 pm are classified as part-time students. it should be noted that students living in the residence hall must pay the full comprehensive tuition, regardless of the number of credits taken in the semester. part-time students are not eligible to live in the residence halls; however, pending the availability of rooms and approval by the dean of students, part-time students may be allowed residence in college residence halls. part-time status also affects eligibility for financial aid and intercollegiate athletics. computation of the total credits permitted per semester includes directed inquiries and concurrent enrollment at other consortium institutions. direct registration at another institution may not be counted toward the full-time enrollment status. first-year students may take up to four 4-credit courses and up to three additional credits each semester of their first year. a year’s residence with satisfactory grades is the usual prerequisite for taking more than the maximum number of courses. degree students may obtain permission to audit no more than one course per semester, without payment of fee, by agreement with the professor concerned. audited courses are not included in the number of credits carried, nor are they recorded on the permanent record. special, non-degree students (those students not seeking a degree) may enroll in more than eight (8) credits only with the permission of the dean of admission. summer term registration and course load students may register in 4 credits in each 5-week session of summer term. registration in more than 4 credits in a 5-week session requires approval by the registrar. students may carry no more than 12 credits in a summer term. foundation courses only certain courses in the rhodes curriculum and in each department are approved to meet foundation requirements. each of these courses is designated in the course description in this catalog and on the class schedule for each semester online. it is the student’s responsibility to be aware of what courses in which they may be enrolled satisfy foundation requirements. such courses are submitted by faculty members to the foundations curriculum committee for approval. it is not possible for students to request foundation credit approval by the committee for any coursework with the exception of foundation 11. self-initiated requests for f11 credit for certain coursework or experiences may be requested using the appropriate form available online. course prerequisites and co-requisites course prerequisites and co-requisites are requirements for entry into a course that state the background, experience, or related coursework that is needed for success in that course and to establish a relative order in which certain courses need to be taken.the educational program https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/77 10 of 52 7/25/23, 12:56 pm these requirements are set by the department based on experience and judgment. students are responsible for knowing the prerequisites or co-requisites of any courses for which they register. students who register for courses for which they do not meet such prerequisites may be asked to drop those courses from their schedules. a prerequisite is a requirement that must be met in advance of taking the course. if the prerequisite is stated as a course by number, then that course must have been completed satisfactorily at rhodes or accepted by rhodes as transfer credit from another institution before the student can enroll in the desired course. a co-requisite is a requirement that must be met at the same time as the course is being taken if that requirement has not already been met. if the co-requisite is stated as a numbered course, then that co-requisite course must be taken at the same time or credit for the co-requisite course must have already been earned. a linked co-requisite is a course requirement that must be taken at the same time as the course to which it is linked. in most cases, the linked co-requisite courses will be a three- credit lecture course and a one-credit laboratory. enrollment in one linked co-requisite course is permitted if the course has been failed previously, or is eligible to be repeated due to a final grade. if enrollment in one linked co-requisite is discontinued either by dropping or withdrawing, a student may not continue enrollment in the other linked course. successful completion of both linked courses is required in order for a foundation requirement to be met. in some cases, a prerequisite may not be stated in terms of a numbered course. for example, a prerequisite may be “a designated course or permission of instructor” or “permission of the department.” in some cases, a prerequisite may require a specific class standing, e.g. “junior or senior class standing” or “first-year students only.” these conditions express flexible arrangements that a department may use to manage course prerequisites. “permission of the instructor” is the most flexible and requires that the student receive the approval of the instructor before enrolling in that course. a student who does not meet a specific course-numbered prerequisite for a desired course must get permission of the department prior to enrolling in that course. students not meeting a specific class standing requirement may be asked to drop the courses from their schedules. class standing under the foundations curriculum, a minimum of 30 credits are required for admission to the sophomore class, 63 credits for admission to the junior class, and 96 credits for admission to the senior class. it should be noted that a minimum of 32 credits must be earned per year in order to accumulate the 128 credits needed for graduation in four years.the educational program https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/77 11 of 52 7/25/23, 12:56 pm class attendance rhodes, as a residential college of the liberal arts and sciences, considers interactive engagement with other students and the professor, in a structured setting, to be one of the essential and central components of the academic program. students enrolled at the institution make a commitment to participate fully in their education, which includes attending class. absenteeism is not to be taken lightly. any student who fails to attend the first day of a class without providing prior notice of his or her absence to the instructor of the course or the chairperson of the department may be asked to drop the course upon request of the instructor. the student is responsible for dropping the class officially upon notification that such action has been taken. specific attendance policies are set by individual instructors, who state them in the course syllabus and during the first class session. faculty should be mindful in setting attendance policies that college-sanctioned activities may require participating students to be off campus and consequently miss class. faculty are discouraged from penalizing students solely for such absence and should normally, at their discretion, accommodate such a student (e.g., an alternate date for a test.) however, it is the student’s responsibility in undertaking college-sanctioned activities (e.g., varsity athletics, internships, and off- campus competitions connected with courses) to understand that their participation may come at the cost of absences from other courses or even forfeiting credit on certain assignments when making them up is not feasible. if, in accordance with the course policies, the instructor determines that excessive absences are jeopardizing a student’s ability to obtain a passing grade in the course, the instructor may make written request to the dean of the faculty that the student be removed from the course with a grade of f. if a student is removed from two or more courses in the same semester for this reason, the student may be asked to withdraw from the college. mandatory attendance at events outside of the regularly scheduled class period (e.g., lectures, seminars, concerts) will normally be included in the syllabus at the start of the semester, and will usually include some scheduling flexibility so that students may make informed decisions regarding their co-curricular educational and employment commitments. if exams or additional class sessions are scheduled outside of the regular class period, faculty members will give alternative times so that students may honor out- of-class educational and employment commitments if possible. class preparation a student is expected to spend a minimum of forty-six hours of academic study for every enrolled credit. this principle applies to tutorial and directed inquiry study as well as to regular course work during the academic year. time spent on a per assignment basis will vary depending on the nature of the class assignments; however, on an average, a minimum of ten hours per week outside of class is expected for active preparation for athe educational program https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/77 12 of 52 7/25/23, 12:56 pm four-credit course. schedule changes during the first week of classes in each semester, or the first two days during a 5-week summer session, courses may be added (based on seat availability) and/or dropped from a student’s schedule. students may drop full semester classes until the end of the third week of a fall or spring semester, or the 5th day of class in a 5-week summer term session. the drop/add period for those courses that run during one of the 7-week sessions within the semester will be during the 1st week of that session only. no extended drop period exists for these partial semester courses. approval of a course underload must be obtained if the resulting course load is less than 12 credits. no credit will be awarded retroactively for courses for which a student failed to register properly, including physical education. any student who fails to attend the first day of class without providing prior notice of his or her absence to the instructor of the course or the chairperson of the department may be removed from the course upon notification of the instructor to the registrar. the student is then responsible for then dropping the course. withdrawal from class students withdrawing from a course between the beginning of the fourth week and the end of the eleventh week of a semester will receive a grade of w (withdrew). students withdrawing from a course between the 6th day and the 18th day of a 5-week summer session will receive a grade of w. the w grade is not computed in the student’s grade point average. withdrawal from a course is not official until the appropriate form with all required approvals is submitted by the student to the registrar’s office. a request to withdraw from a class which does not receive the approval of the instructor and the faculty advisor may be appealed to the standards and standing committee. the request to withdraw from a class after the stated deadline requires the approval of the standards and standing committee in addition to the approvals of the instructor and the student’s faculty adviser. students are expected to continue to attend classes until there is official notice that the request for withdrawal from class has been approved. no request for withdrawal from a class will be considered after the last day of classes. unauthorized withdrawal from any class constitutes a failure in the course. a student who withdraws from all courses in a semester is considered to be withdrawn from the college and must follow the appropriate procedure described below. no student will be permitted to withdraw from a course in which he or she is underthe educational program https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/77 13 of 52 7/25/23, 12:56 pm investigation for violating the honor code until the alleged violation has been adjudicated. a student may not withdraw from a course in which he or she has been found “in violation” of the honor code. interruption of participation in the college it is not uncommon for some students faced with family circumstances, health or other problems, or academic difficulty to consider interrupting participation in the college for a semester or longer. students who find themselves in such situations are encouraged to confer with their academic advisers, the college counseling office, or student life to discuss the variety of options available and the implications, advantages, and disadvantages of these options (personal, academic, and financial.) leave of absence application for and the granting of a leave of absence indicates a continuing relationship between the student and the college. students may decide to apply for a leave of absence for a wide variety of reasons and the terms of the leave of absence granted are designed to reflect the individual’s needs and circumstances. these terms range from the resumption of studies at the time specified without further approval by college authorities to the requirement that the student satisfy the college that conditions are now such that the individual is likely to succeed and prosper on return. a leave of absence is granted only for one or two full semesters, and a student must make the request for a leave of absence in writing in advance to the faculty standards and standing committee. students should obtain the necessary information and forms from the dean of student office. students who are granted a leave of absence must contact the dean of student office in order to initiate the normal process of leaving campus. a leave of absence is not normally granted for periods in excess of one year. a leave of absence is not given for the purpose of studying at another institution nor can it be given to students who are not in good academic standing. if circumstances warrant, a student may be approved to enroll in up to two courses at another institution while on leave. students on leave must return to the college at the specified time or be deemed to have withdrawn from the college necessitating application for readmission. withdrawal from the college in some instances, a student may decide not to apply for a leave of absence but to withdraw from the college. students who decide to withdraw from the college, either during or at the end of a semester, must contact the dean of students office in order to initiate the withdrawal process. a letter of withdrawal must be filed with student life and the entire withdrawal process completed before the student can be officially withdrawn from the college.the educational program https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/77 14 of 52 7/25/23, 12:56 pm students who decide to return to the college after having withdrawn must apply for readmission. if a student withdraws from the college during or at the end of a semester, it is expected that readmission, if approved, will not take place until one full academic semester has lapsed. applications for readmission are available from rhodes express. (see also “voluntary withdrawal and removal from campus” in the campus regulations and “readmission of students” in the admissions section of this catalogue.) examinations the honor code represents what the students, the faculty, and the administration believe to be the best environment for the pursuit of the college’s educational aims. all tests and examinations are conducted under the honor code, and students are asked to indicate on their tests and final examinations that they have abided by the principles contained in the honor code. normally every course for which credit is given has a final examination as a component. final examinations are intended to assess students’ mastery of the subject matter of the course and are normally comprehensive in scope. in some courses the purposes of a final examination are best served by special testing: take-home examinations, departmentally administered oral examinations, special projects and assignments, for example. whatever the testing method, the important factor is that students are asked to synthesize major concepts, approaches, and facts from the course, and to demonstrate that they can do this on their own. final examinations are given during the examination week according to the published schedule. a student with three examinations in a row (not to include reading days) may petition the dean of the faculty to re-schedule no more than two examinations for later times in the examination period. other changes because of extenuating circumstances (e.g. illness) must also be approved by the professor and the dean. a professor may offer optional exam times for an entire class within the examination period, except for a reading day. each member of the class must choose one of the optional times at least one week before the first day of examinations. the feasibility of implementing this option is left to the professor’s discretion. if exams are scheduled outside of the regular class period, students should be given alternative times which accommodate their other commitments. a student who has a failing average on course work may be counseled before the final examination about the status of that work and about the role the final examination will play in determining the final grade, but the student is not excluded from taking the final examination. a student who has a passing average on course work but fails the final examination, and as a result has a failing average for the course, may be permitted to take a re-examination at the discretion of the instructor. the conditional grade of e (reexamination) is given in this case. the reexamination must be taken no later than thethe educational program https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/77 15 of 52 7/25/23, 12:56 pm end of the second week of classes of the following semester. a student who has a passing average on course work and who fails the final examination, but who earns a passing final grade, may be given the appropriate letter grade for the course. unexcused absence from a final examination automatically results in failure in the course. a student who is prevented by illness or other reason from taking the final examination at the scheduled time must present a written excuse or doctor’s certificate and will be given a conditional grade of x (incomplete). in some courses, due to the lesser weight given to the final examination in determining the final grade for the course, a professor may not wish to give the grade of f for an unexcused absence or the grade of x in the event of an excused absence. the professor’s policy on this matter is made clear at the beginning of the course so that there is no misunderstanding and so that it is clear that this situation is an exception to the general college policy. consult the section on conditional grades for policies governing e and x grades. conditional grades: reexaminations and incompletes a student with a grade of e (see examinations) must notify the registrar at least one week in advance of the scheduled time that the reexamination will be attempted. if the student passes the reexamination, a grade of d-, d, or d+ will be earned, unless the course was taken pass/fail, in which case the grade of p will be recorded. seniors in the final semester of attendance may be eligible for reexamination without delay, at the discretion of the professor, if they fail a final examination and are given an e grade. the grade of x (incomplete) may be requested by a student who is unable to complete coursework because of circumstances beyond their reasonable control (e.g., illness, injury, incapacitation, or other emergency). the conditions for requesting an incomplete are as follows: • the student should have a passing grade either at midterm or at the time of the petition. • the amount of unfinished coursework, including any final exam, should not exceed that assigned in a typical three-week period during a full semester (or an equivalent interval within a summer-session course). • the petition must be agreed to by all parties involved (student/professor/adviser) by the course's assigned final exam day and no earlier than the final three weeks of the semester. (the completed form itself must be submitted either electronically or in hard copy no later than the final grade due date.) all unfinished work must be completed and submitted to the course instructor before the first day of classes in the student's next term of enrollment (fall, spring, or summer). students returning to rhodes after an approved leave of absence or an off-campus studythe educational program https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/77 16 of 52 7/25/23, 12:56 pm program must also have resolved all incompletes prior to this start date. faculty must have a final grade turned in to the registrar by the end of the last day of the term's drop/add period. if there are other circumstances that should be taken into account, they should be addressed prior to signing the form; and acceptable completion date must be agreed upon by all parties, but no later than the third week of the following semester. if none of the student's incomplete work is submitted before the day classes begin in their next enrolled term, the conditional grade (x) will be converted automatically to the provisional grade submitted by faculty on the conditional grade report form. if illness or other extraordinary circumstances prevent a student from meeting this deadline for submission of unfinished work, then a petition requesting an extension must be submitted to and approved by the standards and standing committee prior to the deadline for submission of the work. grades and grade points in official recording of academic work, the following symbols are employed: a, excellent; b, good; c, satisfactory; d, passing; p, pass; e, re-examination; x, incomplete; ip, course in progress; f, failure; w, withdrew; ng, grade not submitted by professor. e and x grades are conditional and may be removed. the grades of b, c, and d are employed with plus and minus notations. the grade of a is employed with the minus notation. grade points are used to determine a student’s grade point average. the number of grade points awarded per credit hour for each grade is as follows: gradegrade pts grade grade pts a 4.0 c 2.0 a- 3.7 c- 1.7 b+ 3.3 d+ 1.3 b 3.0 d 1.0 b- 2.7 d- 0.7 c+ 2.3 f 0.0 the total number of grade points earned for all courses are divided by the number of credits attempted in order to calculate the grade point average. credits with a grade of pass are not included in the determination of the grade point average although those credits with a grade of fail are included. the grade of w is not computed in the grade point average. conditional grades earn no quality points and no credits until they are removed. credit and grade points earned by students who return for additional coursethe educational program https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/77 17 of 52 7/25/23, 12:56 pm work after receiving a degree are not computed with the final degree grade point average. instead, a new grade point average is computed for all work attempted after receiving a degree. the major grade point average is computed using the same formula as above. in computing the grade point average in the major department, all courses taken in the major department, not just those courses required for the major, and any required cognate courses in other departments are used. pass-fail a student may enroll in a class on a pass-fail basis with the permission of the instructor. no more than one course per semester with a maximum of six courses total is permitted. courses that are graded pass-fail only do not count against that limitation. the pass/fail option may not be used in courses taken to satisfy foundation requirements with the exception of f11 and may not be used for courses taken to satisfy major or minor requirements including cognate courses. the student wishing to take a course on a pass-fail basis must determine from the instructor the letter grade equivalent and the requirements for a grade of pass. the pass- fail form with the instructor’s signature must be returned to rhodes express during the first eleven weeks of class in a semester. courses with grades of pass count neither for nor against a student in the computation of grade point averages, but a failing grade is computed in the grade point averages. grade reports reports of student’s grades are available online on the rhodes website at mid-semester and at the end of each semester. students are responsible for keeping other family members correctly and currently informed of their academic standing and progress. honor roll and dean’s list an honor roll and a dean’s list are compiled at the end of each semester. to be considered for honor roll or dean’s list, a student must be enrolled in at least 16 credits of academic work. to qualify for the honor roll, a student must achieve a semester grade point average of 3.85 or better. to qualify for the dean’s list, a student must achieve a semester grade point average of 3.70 or better. those students who choose to take a course under the pass/fail option must have a minimum of 12 (twelve) additional graded credits of work to be considered for either of these honors. students who are enrolled in the honors program or independent research and receive a grade of ip for that work will have their qualifying grade point average determined on all other graded work. academic good standingthe educational program https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/77 18 of 52 7/25/23, 12:56 pm students are considered to be in academic good standing unless they are on academic probation or suspension. rhodes express will send statements to that effect to other institutions in order for current rhodes students to attend summer sessions or other programs. academic probation and suspension to graduate, a student must have an overall grade point average of 2.00 (c) for all work attempted and for all work attempted in the major department. a student is subject to academic probation if the major grade point average falls below 2.00. a student is subject to academic probation or suspension if the cumulative grade point at the end of any semester or summer term falls below a minimum standard, which is dictated by the number of cumulative credits the student has earned. the cumulative standards are as follows: number of credits earnedminimum gpa to avoid suspensionminimum gpa to avoid probation 0-30 1.50 1.60 31-63 1.70 1.80 64-96 1.90 2.00 97 or more 2.00 2.00 in addition, a student is subject to probation in any semester in which the student earns fewer than twelve (12) credits and earns a grade point average of less than 1.50. note: students placed on probation due to semester grade point average who also enroll in summer courses at rhodes will have their records reviewed at the end of the summer term. if they earn a minimum of four (4) rhodes college credits with a minimum summer term grade point average of 2.00, they may be returned to good standing. the summer term grade point average is defined as the aggregate grade point average of all rhodes summer work. a student on academic probation is not considered to be in good academic standing. such students are ineligible to participate in some extracurricular activities, including intercollegiate athletics. a student is removed from academic probation upon attainment of the minimum standard grade point average based on the number of credits earned. after being placed on academic probation, a student may be continued on academic probation for no more than two consecutive semesters. at the end of the third consecutive semester on academic probation, the student must be removed from probation or placed on academic suspension.the educational program https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/77 19 of 52 7/25/23, 12:56 pm academic suspension may be imposed at the end of the fall or spring semester. fees will not be refunded or remitted, in whole or in part, in the event of a suspension imposed by the college. the period of suspension is one semester. summer term does not fulfill this suspension period. following suspension, a student may apply for readmission. any student placed on academic suspension by the college for a second time may not be readmitted. no credit may be transferred for work done at another institution during the period of academic suspension. a student has the right to request reconsideration of academic suspension. the faculty standards and standing committee considers the request. the committee may allow the student to continue on academic probation into the next academic semester under specified conditions for academic achievement if it finds that the failure to achieve academically was due principally to extenuating circumstances and that the student has taken appropriate measures to ensure future academic success. semester grade point averages are affected by the conditional grades of x and e. the above provisions will apply when either of these grades is on the record in question. the action to suspend or be placed on academic probation may be delayed until it is determined what the grade point average will be when the conditional grades are removed. repeating a course because of grade any student who has received a grade of d-, d, or d+ in a course may repeat the course for a higher grade. no additional credit may be earned when repeating a course for a higher grade. any student who has failed a course may repeat the course for credit. the credits attempted and the grade points earned for each attempt of the course are included in the calculation of the student’s major grade point average and cumulative grade point average. however, only one failure of a course will be calculated in the grade point averages. grade queries and appeals there is no more fundamental relationship in an academic program than that of the instructor and student. the faculty and its academic officers work to support and to sustain a meaningful and productive instructor-student relationship to secure the educational aims of the college and of the members of its faculty. clearly the relationship is not one between equals, and this is most clearly evident when the instructor must assign a grade for the work required of, or expected of, a student. grade queries. on occasion a student may believe that a grade assigned is incorrect. thethe educational program https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/77 20 of 52 7/25/23, 12:56 pm student has the right to initiate a discussion with the instructor to determine that the grade given is in fact correct. if a mistake has been made, the instructor changes the grade and requests that the associate dean of academic affairs direct the registrar to change a grade that has been officially entered on the student’s academic record. grade appeals. in the event that, after consulting with the instructor, the student is not satisfied that a grade has been assigned fairly, the student may write an explanation of why he or she believes the grade assigned is not justified. the student gives this statement to the instructor, who may decide that the explanation warrants a reconsideration of the grade assigned. if the instructor decides not to change the assigned grade and discussion with the student does not result in the student’s agreement with this decision, the instructor asks the department chair to review the procedures for determining grades in the course, the student’s request, and the instructor’s response to it. the faculty member provides a written statement to the department chair about why the original grade is valid. should the chair of the department determine that no lapse in procedure has occurred and that full attention has been given to the explanation by the instructor, the matter is closed. the chair of the department communicates this decision to the student and the instructor. should the chair of the department determine that the procedure was not properly followed or that additional attention to the explanation is warranted, the chair discusses the situation with the instructor or the chair may obtain additional evaluations of the student’s work. these evaluations may be requested from colleagues within the faculty whose knowledge and expertise are appropriate to a review of the student’s work. having completed this additional evaluation, the chair’s determination about the grade closes the matter. the chair of the department communicates this final decision to the student, the instructor, and the associate dean of academic affairs. special provisions. the period of time during which appeals of final grades can be made expires at the end of the fourth week of the semester following the posting of the grade. in the event that appeals for reconsideration of grades involves grades assigned by a chair of a department, then the appeal procedure will be conducted by the senior member of the department, or the next senior member of the department in the event that the chair is the senior member. in instances where there are no other senior members in the department, the associate dean of academic affairs will oversee the inquiry. the provisions outlined above are meant to apply to situations in which appeals for reconsideration of grades are made by students. if a student’s complaint involves a belief that he or she has been discriminated against because of the practices in managing a course, the dean of the faculty is the administrative officer to receive any such complaint. it may be that the dean will ask that the general provisions above be followed in an investigation of possible discrimination. transcriptsthe educational program https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/77 21 of 52 7/25/23, 12:56 pm complete college records for each student are kept by the registrar. requests for transcripts must be in writing. requests received via fax machine will be accepted although transcripts will not be transmitted via the fax. no transcript will be issued to students, current or past, whose financial accounts are delinquent. family education rights and privacy act the family educational rights and privacy act of 1974, as amended, is a federal law which states (a) that a written institutional policy must be established and (b) that a statement of adopted procedures covering the privacy rights of students be made available. the law provides that the institution will maintain the confidentiality of student education records. rhodes college accords all the rights under the law to enrolled students. no one outside the institution shall have access to nor will the institution disclose any information from students’ education records without the written consent of students except to personnel within the institution as defined below, to officials of other institutions in which student seek to enroll, to persons or organizations providing students financial aid, to agencies carrying out their accreditation function, to persons in compliance with a judicial order, and to persons in an emergency in order to protect the health or safety of students or other persons. all these exceptions are permitted under the act. only those members of the rhodes college community, individually or collectively, acting in the students’ educational interest are allowed access to student education records. these members include personnel in the office of the registrar including student workers in that office, and the professional staff of the office of student affairs, financial aid, institutional research, and college officials with a legitimate educational interest as determined by the registrar. a college official may be determined to have legitimate educational interest if the information requested or released is necessary for the official to (a) perform appropriate tasks that are specified in his or her position description or by a contractual agreement; (b) perform a task related to a student’s education; (c) perform a task related to the discipline of the student; or (d) provide a service or benefit relating to the student or student’s family, such as health care, counseling, job placement, or financial aid. at its discretion the institution may provide directory information in accordance with the provisions of the act including student name, parents’ names, campus and home addresses and telephone numbers, cellular phone number, email address, photograph, dates of attendance, year of graduation, degree and honors awarded or expected, academic major, and faculty adviser. students may withhold directory information by notifying the registrar in writing at least sixty days prior to the first day of class for the fall semester. requests for non-disclosure will be honored by the institution for only one academic year; therefore, authorization to withhold directory information must be filed annually.the educational program https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/77 22 of 52 7/25/23, 12:56 pm the law provides students with the right to inspect and review information contained in their education records, to challenge the contents of their education records, to have a hearing if the outcome of the challenge is unsatisfactory, and to submit explanatory statements for inclusion in their files if the decisions of the hearing panels are unacceptable. the registrar at rhodes college has been designated by the institution to coordinate the inspection and review procedures for student educational records, which include admissions, personal, academic, and financial files, and academic and placement records. students wishing to review their education records must make written requests to the registrar listing the item or items of interest. only records covered by the act will be made available within forty-five days of the request. in addition, the law only affords students a right to copies of their education records if a denial of copies would effectively prevent the students from exercising the right to inspect and review the records. therefore, students may have copies made of their records with certain exceptions. the college reserves the right to deny copies of records, including academic transcripts, not required to be made available by ferpa in any of the following situations: 1. the student lives within commuting distance of the school; 2. the student has an unpaid financial obligation to the school; 3. there is an unresolved disciplinary action against the student; 4. the education record requested is an exam, or set of standardized test questions; 5. the education record requested is a transcript of an original or source document which exists elsewhere. education records do not include records of instructional, supervisory, administrative, and educational personnel which are the sole possession of the maker and are not accessible or revealed to any individual except a temporary substitute. other records not included are those of the campus safety department, student health records, employment records (except those records of student workers), or alumni records. health records, however, may be reviewed by physicians of the students’ choosing. students may not inspect and review the following as outlined by the act: financial information submitted by their parents; confidential letters and recommendations associated with admission to the college, employment or job placement, or honors to which they have waived their rights of inspection and review; or education records containing information about more than one student, in which case the institution will permit access only to that part of the record which pertains to the inquiring student. the institution is not required to permit students to inspect and review confidential letters andthe educational program https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/77 23 of 52 7/25/23, 12:56 pm recommendations placed in their files prior to january 1, 1975, provided those letters were collected under established policies of confidentiality and were used only for the purposes for which they were collected. students who believe that their education records contain information that is inaccurate or misleading, or is otherwise in violation of their privacy or other rights, may discuss their problems informally with the registrar. if the decisions of the registrar are in agreement with the students’ requests, the appropriate records will be amended. if not, the students will be notified within a reasonable period of time that the records will not be amended; and they will be informed of their right to a formal hearing. student requests for formal hearings must be made in writing to the dean of the faculty who, within a reasonable period of time after receiving such requests, will inform students of the date, place, and the time of the hearings. students may present evidence relevant to the issues raised and may be assisted or represented at the hearings by one or more persons of their choice, including attorneys, at the students’ expense. the hearing panels which will adjudicate such challenges will be the faculty standards and standing committee. decisions of the hearing panel will be final, will be based solely on the evidence presented at the hearing, and will consist of written statements summarizing the evidence and stating the reasons for the decisions, and will be delivered to all parties concerned. the education records will be corrected or amended in accordance with the decisions of the hearing panels, if the decisions are in favor of the students. if the decisions are unsatisfactory to the students, the students may place with the education records statements commenting on the information in the records, or statements setting forth any reasons for disagreeing with the decisions of the hearing panels. the statements will be placed in the education records, maintained as part of the students’ records, and released whenever the records in question are disclosed. students who believe that the adjudications of their challenges were unfair or not in keeping with the provisions of the act may request, in writing, assistance from the president of the college to aid them in filing complaints with the family educational rights and privacy act office (ferpa), department of education, washington, d.c. 20201 revisions and clarifications of this policy will be published as experience with the law and the institutional policy warrants. annual notice of compliance with the act is published in the rhodes college catalog. printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/educational-program/academic-regulations foundations curriculum the foundations curriculumthe educational program https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/77 24 of 52 7/25/23, 12:56 pm in the fall of 2007, the foundations curriculum, an academic curriculum that establishes a new approach to the study of the liberal arts and sciences at the college, was fully implemented. the foundations curriculum was adopted by the faculty in order to achieve several goals: 1. to assist students to understand the goals of a liberal arts education and to take greater responsibility for their education. the curriculum gives students greater freedom to follow their academic interests and aspirations within a framework of foundation requirements that are fundamental to the study of the liberal arts; 2. to provide a more transparent and streamlined curriculum by framing the degree requirements in terms of skills and content areas; 3. to bring greater focus to the courses students take and to recognize that their activities inside and outside the classroom should be mutually informative and energizing; 4. to create the opportunity to offer more courses reflective of the scholarly interests of the faculty and to develop innovative courses that respond to the developing currents in contemporary thought; and, 5. to establish four courses as the standard load per semester in order to allow for a more focused educational experience for all of our students. the foundations curriculum enhances the way in which the four components of the rhodes education work together: the foundation requirements (commonly referred to as “f1”, “f2”, etc.), the concentration in a major, the choice of elective courses, and participation in co-curricular activities. the foundation of the liberal arts requirements the foundation requirements establish a framework for liberal education and life-long learning. unless mentioned otherwise in the description, foundation requirements will be met by taking one course specified as meeting that requirement, and most requirements will have courses in several different departments that do so. upon completion of the requirements and the attainment of a bachelor’s degree from rhodes, each graduate of the college should be able to: 1. critically examine personal, social, and cultural values. an education in the liberal arts must engage students in critical examination of the relationship between the values they hold as individuals and their social and historical location. the cultural context of a liberal arts institution in the united states is itself marked by values, a moral orientation, and operative assumptions that are in need of exploration and open to critical reflections. thoughtful engagement with the complex legacies of texts and traditions that have been formative of this culture is anthe educational program https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/77 25 of 52 7/25/23, 12:56 pm especially effective way to gain skills for critical thinking, self-awareness, and communication across differences of value. courses that fulfill the f1 must satisfy the requirement of the bellingrath trust to offer academically 'sound and comprehensive' exploration of biblical texts and traditions. courses that fulfill this requirement will engage students in a critical examination of personal, social, and cultural values through the academic study of biblical literature and of traditions that are productively compared with it. this requirement is satisfied by completing a set of two coordinated courses at the 100-level (e.g., 101, 102) and one course at the 200-level or higher. the first two courses must be completed during the first year and the second course must also fulfil the f2i. the third course at the 200-level or higher must be completed after the first year. 2. develop excellence in written communication. the ability to express concise and methodical arguments in clear and precise prose is essential to success in most courses at rhodes and in most of the vocations rhodes graduates pursue. students will receive significant training in writing during the first two years through one (1) course (f2s) focused on learning to write, including such skills as critical analysis, clear expression, and effective argumentation, and two (2) writing intensive courses (f2i) focused on using writing to learn discipline-specific content. these three required courses will provide the initial steps in the student's deliberate development as a writer. given the developmental nature of this foundation requirement series, students are encouraged to take f2s prior to or concurrent with but not after f2i; writing in discipline-specific f2i courses relies on the skills learned in f2s. this requirement will be satisfied by one writing seminar (taken in the first year) and two writing intensive courses, one of which will be in the 2nd semester of the first year f1 sequence. normally, all three courses are to be completed by the end of the second year. writing intensive courses and writing seminars may explore material in any discipline or may be interdisciplinary. however, the writing seminars will have as their central focus writing skills. 3. engage in historical thinking about the human past. historical thinking requires a deliberative stance towards the human past as it is constructed and interpreted with primary sources, such as human artifacts, written evidence, oral traditions, and artistic expressions. it requires understanding of historical forces and actors and engagement with interpretive debate, through the skillful use of an evolving set of methodological practices and tools. 4. read and interpret literary texts. literary texts provide challenging and influential representations of human experience in its individual, social, and cultural dimensions. critical and sensitive reading of significant works refines analytical skills and develops an awareness of the power of language. 5. create art and analyze artistic expression. humans express themselves creativelythe educational program https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/77 26 of 52 7/25/23, 12:56 pm through art forms that are aural, visual, and performed. creating and studying art are particularly effective ways of understanding art. this requirement may be satisfied with a designated course in which the primary and sustained focus is artistic creativity. 6. gain facility with mathematical reasoning and expression. some human experiences are most effectively expressed in mathematical language, and important areas of intellectual inquiry rely on mathematics as a tool of analysis and as a means of conveying information. 7. explore and understand scientific approaches to the natural world. our experience of the world is profoundly influenced by a scientific understanding of the physical realm of our existence. to make informed decisions about the production and application of scientific knowledge, students need to understand the way science examines the natural world. students acquire such knowledge by learning scientific facts and by understanding and engaging through laboratory work the powerful methods by which scientific information is obtained. 8. use theory and empirical research to explore aspects of human experience and interaction and apply these to contemporary issues. responsible citizenship entails critical evaluation and interpretation of theoretical and empirical approaches to understanding contemporary conditions that influence the well-being of individuals and their communities. a sound understanding of the institutions and practices that shape and are shaped by human behavior will allow students to become more informed participants in critical conversations that transform our world. 9. view the world from more than one cultural perspective. the individual of today's world must be able to understand issues and events through multiple cultural perspectives by developing abilities that facilitate intelligent and respectful interaction in various cultural contexts. these abilities include recognizing, understanding and articulating the similarities and differences of cultural perspectives, including one's own. 10. demonstrate intermediate second-language proficiency. proficiency in a second language allows a level of access to a culture that is not achievable through sources in translation. intermediate proficiency includes the ability to understand and communicate with members of the target culture, negotiate differences between the second language and the first, and use the second language as a tool for human communication. 11. participate in activities that broaden connections between the classroom and the world. rhodes students are asked to become engaged citizens, participating in the local community - its politics, its culture, its problems, its aspirations – and in thethe educational program https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/77 27 of 52 7/25/23, 12:56 pm world community. students gain skill in connecting knowledge to its uses through educational experience that takes them off campus. 12. develop skills to become an informed, active and engaged student-citizen. the f12 provides opportunities to explore core aspects of one’s community and one’s self. students will learn how to thrive within a learning environment, and how to develop the skills and discover resources necessary to flourish as an individual, as a scholar, and as an active citizen of the interconnected communities of rhodes college, memphis, and the wider world. this requirement is fulfilled through the successful completion of a first year seminar at rhodes as approved by the foundations curriculum committee. printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/educational-program/foundations-curriculum foundations programs in the humanities questions about the meaning and purpose of life are central to human existence. every area of the rhodes curriculum touches in some way upon such questions, whether directly as in moral philosophy, epic poetry, and political thought, or indirectly as in studies of the history of medieval europe, economic theory, and the physical structure of the universe. the programs life: then and now (“life”) and the search for values in the light of western religion and history (“search”) help students think about these issues and so provide the foundation for the entire curriculum. life and search students meet in small groups led by faculty members to analyze challenging and controversial texts that have shaped and reshaped thought, particularly in western societies. because of its prominence in world history, these courses pay special attention to the bible and the traditions that have emerged in relationship to it. life and search courses endeavor to make the familiar unfamiliar by examining critically the logical and historical foundations of received opinion and texts. they also make the unfamiliar familiar by studying traditions, artifacts, and issues that most students have not yet encountered. through both programs, students learn to appreciate the role of historical context in shaping values, beliefs, and practices and to reflect critically on their own values, beliefs, and practices. life and search stress skills that are central to the whole curriculum: careful reading, analytical writing, critical thinking, and discussion. at the start of their first year in the college, most students choose to pursue life or search (or other coordinated courses outside life or search that fulfill the f1 humanities requirement), and generally remain in their chosen program until they have completed it. search and life share many features but also are distinctive. the following descriptions clarify the differences.the educational program https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/77 28 of 52 7/25/23, 12:56 pm life: then and now the student who chooses the life: then and now program completes a three semester sequence of courses. the first courses are taken in the fall and spring semesters of the first year. the third course may be taken at any time in the remaining three years of the student’s college career. the first two courses in the life sequence are religious studies 101-102, the bible: texts and contexts. these courses introduce students to the academic study of the bible and the traditions of interpretation and reflection based upon it. this two semester sequence follows a basic chronological development, from the earliest biblical sources to modern interpretations. the first semester of the course is taught by members of the department of religious studies with primary competence in the study of the bible and the second semester by members with expertise in theological reflection and the disciplines of the history of religion. both courses emphasize careful textual analysis, clear and effective writing, and active discussion with peers. complete descriptions of these courses may be found in the religious studies section of the catalogue. the third life course is chosen from a variety of offerings in religious studies, philosophy, and greek and roman studies. these courses build on the skills and base of knowledge developed in first year life and further refine and augment them. the third life course is selected from an array that includes advanced study of the bible, theology and ethics, philosophy, and the history of religions. the spectrum of upper-level life courses will change periodically to reflect student and faculty interests but includes staples such as “archaeology and the bible,” “king david,” “sex and gender in the new testament,” “paul,” “contemporary theology,” “holocaust,” “islam,” and “religious traditions of asia,” “religion in america,” “medieval philosophy,” and “ethics.” with a wide variety of choices, students may select a third life course that suits their interests and best complements their overall academic plan. the search for values in the light of western history and religion the “search” curriculum is a three-semester sequence of humanities courses that focuses on major works that have formed the western tradition. in a small, seminar setting, search students and faculty engage in sustained examination of vital questions arising from an individual’s relationships to the natural world, human society, and the products of human culture. we approach these questions by interrogating central texts within, and written in contestation of, western intellectual traditions, including christianity, judaism, and islam. students read the hebrew bible, the new testament, and the qur’an in conjunction with other selected works from the ancient and medieval worlds. the texts we study over the course of our three semesters speak directly to each other, often radically critiquing the traditions out of which they emerge. in search, we critically examine the assumptions that emerge from these disputed traditions, assumptions thatthe educational program https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/77 29 of 52 7/25/23, 12:56 pm underlie cultures and institutions in the modern world. throughout, we stress the skills that are central to the whole curriculum (careful reading, analytical writing, critical thinking and discussion), and we equip students to enter into a lively and lifelong conversation of ideas. humanities 101 and 102 the first semester of search focuses on the ancient world and follows the history and literature of the israelites and the greeks. texts include the ancient sumerian epic of gilgamesh, the hebrew bible, and the selected works of homer, thucydides, plato, and aristotle. the second semester of search covers literature from the hellenistic period to the middle ages. texts include virgil’s aeneid, the new testament, the qur’an, and dante’s divine comedy. during the first year of the course, all search colloquia follow a common syllabus; every 2-3 weeks, all search students meet for a plenary lecture delivered by one of the search faculty. humanities 201 the third semester of search pursues the questions raised in the first year as they play out in the modern world. students trace the roles of biblical and classical heritages in the shaping of the values, character, and institutions of western culture and its understanding of self and world. different sections follow different themes and disciplinary focuses determined by the instructor. printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/educational-program/foundations-programs- humanities meeman center for lifelong learning lori garner , director. shantih smythe . director of college events. christian assandria, administrative assistant ii, office of development. meeman center for lifelong learning is rhodes’ commitment to learning as a lifelong process. since its inception in 1944, the center has been an integral part of the college, successfully engaging adults of the mid-south in the liberal arts and sciences. meeman center promotes personal and professional development by extending rhodes’ tradition of excellence in liberal arts education to individuals and businesses. all programs, courses, and trips offered by meeman center are described in detail in brochures available on request from the meeman center office or on the web.the educational program https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/77 30 of 52 7/25/23, 12:56 pm non-credit courses lifelong learning courses are offered in literature, art, languages, science, current events, history, religion, philosophy, and other areas of interest. courses vary in length and run in the fall (september through november) and spring (january through may). the instructors are rhodes faculty and invited experts, including rhodes alumni. online registration is available at meeman.rhodes.edu. institute on the profession of law meeman center offers an annual ethics seminar for attorneys to earn dual continuing legal education (cle) units. the seminar emphasizes national speakers, broad issues in law, and enlightened discussion and reflection. rhodes faculty are a vital part of the institute, both as planners and participants. the institute is certified by the tennessee, arkansas, and mississippi continuing legal education commissions. continuing education units generally, continuing education units (ceus) are earned through any meeman center non-credit course. continuing legal education (cle) hours are earned through the institute on the profession of law and certain other cle commission-certified continuing education courses. contact the meeman center office for more information. printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/educational-program/meeman-center-lifelong- learning opportunities for individualized study the fellowships program rhodes recognizes that a liberal education extends beyond the classroom and encourages our students to take part in outside study, research, creative activity, internships, and community service—locally, nationally, and internationally. a fellowship is defined as an activity outside the conventional classroom that complements and broadens the student's program of liberal arts education . fellowships support co-curricular experiences in which students take intellectual ownership in a faculty- or staff- mentored project or experience. at its best, experiential learning allows a student to practice skills and explore more deeply principles acquired through coursework. most often the opportunity to discover and create on one’s own builds confidence and passion. students return to the classroom with renewed interest and focus.the educational program https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/77 31 of 52 7/25/23, 12:56 pm rhodes has pioneered several programs such as self-designed student fellowships, rhodes st. jude summer plus, the rhodes institute for regional studies, the mike curb institute for music, urban education summer institute, and the rhodes summer service fellowship program that provide diverse opportunities for student engagement beyond the classroom. these programs have been so popular and transformative that the college is now engaged in an effort to offer even more opportunities for students to pursue their own personal interests, particularly through projects that involve sustained mentorship and a commitment to the three student learning outcomes associated with experiential education: • participate in an experience that complements and broadens the student's program of liberal arts education • develop critical reflection skills • create a final product related to the fellowship activity the fellowships program can also provide funding for those projects that require it, with the regular application deadline occurring in february. for more information, contact the director of fellowships and undergraduate research (fellowships@rhodes.edu ). the honors program the honors program is a culminating experience in the major field, for seniors only. it is the principal means whereby a student may do more independent, intensive, and individual work than can be done in the regular degree programs. the honors work offers an excellent introduction to graduate study as it employs the full resources of library and laboratory and encourages independent research and study. all honors programs include a project of a scholarly and creative nature. this project can be research culminating in a written report or thesis, or it can be a creative project as represented by an original production. an oral presentation of the final project is also expected. a copy of the final report or production is placed in a permanent file or on display in the library. students considering honors normally take a one-credit tutorial in the second semester of the junior year. emphasis in the tutorial will be selection of a topic, preliminary research and definition of the project, and preparation of the honors application. although each department and program sets its own departmental and program requirements for honors, there are general college requirements for the honors program. to be eligible for the honors program a student must have a minimum cumulative grade point average and a major grade point average of 3.50 at the time of application for honors. the student must graduate with a cumulative grade point average and a majorthe educational program https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/77 32 of 52 7/25/23, 12:56 pm grade point average of 3.50 in order to receive the honors designation at commencement. at least four credits per semester in the senior year must be earned in honors tutorial courses. up to eight additional credits of tutorial or related course work may be counted, resulting in a maximum of sixteen credits of honors in the senior year. special attention is necessary to ensure the completion of the honors project in time for it to be evaluated and approved. for this reason, a special timetable for submission, reviews, and approvals of honors projects is set by each department and program. failure to meet announced deadlines may result in the failure to gain honors recognition. descriptions of the requirements for honors are listed in each departmental and program section of this catalogue. the honors registration form is available as a downloadable form on the rhodes express website. directed inquiry the term directed inquiry indicates a type of independent study designed to give more individuality than is provided by regular coursework. a directed inquiry is a project agreed upon by a student and professor; it may be a laboratory experiment, special readings on a given topic, some type of art work, a group of essays, etc. the details of the project are agreed upon by the student and the professor. directed inquiries may not be used to satisfy general degree requirements. credits for a directed inquiry range from one to four. forty-six hours of work, including outside reading, experiments and conferences, are required for one credit. no more than twelve credits may be earned in any one department. the maximum number of credits for all directed inquiries allowed is twenty-four. normally a first-year student may not undertake a directed inquiry until after the completion of one semester of regular studies. special students are generally not eligible for directed inquiries. proposals for directed inquiries must be submitted for approval to the chair of the department. appropriate forms are available online. these forms call for details such as the beginning and ending dates of the project and set forth specific rules governing such things as extensions or other possible considerations. the student should become familiar with this form well in advance of the date intended to submit a proposal so that everything will be in order and approved by the department when submitted. applications for directed inquiries are to be submitted in time for the department to act and submitted to the registrar before the date set for the project to begin. normally a student will not be permitted to take more than one directed inquiry at a time. in the event that more than two students are interested in a directed inquiry on the same topic, a special topics course may be taught. such courses must conform to the standard forty-six hours of study per credit.the educational program https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/77 33 of 52 7/25/23, 12:56 pm the tutorial plan the tutorial plan of instruction, like the honors program and the directed inquiry, has as its chief purposes the individualizing of instruction and the provision of a means whereby students may go beyond the scope of a class course, both in the amount of work done and the kinds of interests pursued. the method is often that of extensive reading under guidance, and conferences with the tutor on the material read, either individually or in a small group. the content of a tutorial is usually that of a regular catalogue course that is not scheduled to be taught during a particular term. a student may request that the course be taught in the tutorial fashion if a member of the faculty is available and agrees to direct the course. approval by the faculty member, the chairperson of the department involved, and the registrar is necessary for the tutorial to be scheduled. at a minimum, forty-six hours of study are required for each credit or a total of 184 hours of study for a four credit course. interdisciplinary programs interdisciplinary programs exist to provide an appropriate structure within which to offer study opportunities that do not fit within the bounds of existing departments, to bring together faculty and students from several disciplines to study areas of interest that cross traditional departmental lines and require an interdisciplinary approach, and to inform the campus community at large of the nature and importance of these areas. descriptions of interdisciplinary programs in the courses of instruction section of this catalogue. internships rhodes recognizes the need and the value of integrating traditional academic work and practical application. internships are important ways in which students may have this experience. internship credit is given for involvement in off-campus work related to a student’s academic work and supervised by a faculty member of the corresponding department. internships are defined within the course structures of several academic departments. requirements for acceptance as an intern are set by each department. typically, only junior and senior students are eligible to earn credit for an internship. internship experiences earning 3 (three) or more credits will satisfy the f11 requirement, require at least 10 hours of work per week, and the student is expected to integrate academic work with on-the-job activities. internship experiences earning 1 (one) or 2 (two) credits normally require at least 6 hours of work per week, will include a reflective component such as a journal or final paper, and the student will meet with the faculty supervisor at least twice to discuss the internship and reflective component. special internship opportunities can be proposed subject to approval by the departmentthe educational program https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/77 34 of 52 7/25/23, 12:56 pm concerned. interested students should contact the chairperson of the department and the career services office. students pursuing an internship experience arranged through a department and/or the career services office must register for the appropriate course in order to earn academic credit. this credit is considered part of the course load during a regular semester and during summer session. forty-six hours of work, including on-site work as an intern, outside reading, and conferences, are required for one credit. students with summer internships must register for the credit and pay the summer session tuition in order to receive the credit. not all internships are paid, but those that are paid must meet the above requirements to qualify for academic credit. no more than eight (8) credits in internships may be earned in one department per semester. a student may apply toward a degree a maximum of eight (8) credits of internship. the nancy hughes morgan program in hospital chaplaincy this program is designed for pre-medical students and persons going into other health- care related disciplines, the ministry, and counseling fields. it offers a carefully supervised internship in local hospitals where students serve as chaplains’ assistants, develop counseling skills, and sharpen their abilities to listen and respond to patient needs. the memphis consortium of colleges through arrangements between rhodes and christian brothers university, or rhodes and the university of memphis, rhodes students may take courses at those institutions during the fall and spring semesters. only a certain set of courses is available at christian brothers and the university of memphis; a student should contact the registrar for further information. to participate, the student must register for the desired class at either college and include the class on the semester’s course schedule at rhodes. this registration process is completed using the crosstown registration form available on the documents and forms page of the express website. to be eligible to participate in the consortium, students must enroll in at least twelve (12) hours per semester at rhodes to be considered full time. the course credit counts toward the semester’s credits at rhodes; and as long as the consortium course does not result in a course overload for the semester, there is no additional tuition charge. the final grade for the course is computed in the student’s grade point average as if it were a rhodes grade. normally, only one course may be taken per semester through the consortium arrangement. printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/educational-program/opportunities-individualized- studythe educational program https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/77 35 of 52 7/25/23, 12:56 pm opportunities for study abroad and domestic off- campus study rhodes encourages its students to study off-campus through the programs it administers or through programs administered through other institutions. off-campus study, whether domestic or international in scope, requires substantial prior planning. students interested in pursuing such a course of study should formulate and clarify their plans well in advance. off-campus study opportunities are coordinated by the buckman center for international education. the staff in the buckman center can assist students in researching off-campus study programs and can facilitate completion of the program’s application process. students are responsible for meeting with their academic advisors to discuss program choices and for course selections. students applying to study off-campus must have a minimum grade point average of 2.5, unless specified higher by the program, and must be in good social and academic standing. students may study off-campus on a one-semester or year-long rhodes program, exchange program, or affiliated program. in general, students pay tuition, room, and board to rhodes and receive tuition, room and board on the program (there are some differences, depending on the type of program; these are specifically noted in the sections below). rhodes institutional aid and federal/state aid are portable for these programs. in any given year, rhodes offers over 350 such options for off-campus study. off-campus study application process each student who intends to pursue off-campus study must complete the off-campus study application available on the buckman center website. this application, after being changed from “pending” to “accepted”, grants approval for the program of study and, subject to general college policies regarding transfer credit, assigns appropriate credit for the academic work successfully completed. normally a student cannot earn more credit while on a semester study abroad program than could have been earned in a regular semester at rhodes. the buckman center website contains instructions, checklists, deadlines, application materials, and policies. types of off-campus study available briefly, there are three broad categories for off-campus study, listed below. for more detailed information on each of these, please click the links to be taken to their page in the catalogue. • rhodes programs ◦ summer programs ("maymesters")the educational program https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/77 36 of 52 7/25/23, 12:56 pm ◦ semester programs ( nyc internship program and global ghana: history and the diaspora ) • isep and bilateral semester exchanges • affiliated summer and semester programs petitioning to study abroad with non-affiliated programs a student may petition for variance from the policy regarding affiliated programs via a buckman center application reviewed by the director of the buckman center for international education. petitioners may request approval to participate for a semester abroad with non-affiliated programs from a discrete list of exceptional programs maintained by the buckman center. petitions may be granted or denied based on a number of factors, including but not limited to: the quality of the petition, the rationale on the inadequacy of an affiliated program for the student's academic purpose, and the number of petitions already granted for that term, among others. if the petition is granted, the student will be able to participate on the program by paying tuition, room, and board (in some cases, partial or no board) to rhodes and receive tuition, room and board (or partial or no board) on the program abroad, using portable institutional and federal/state aid on the petitioned program. credit earned on these programs is treated as transfer credit. petitioners are encouraged to secure placement on an affiliated program in the event their petition is denied. exceptional programs list the buckman center maintains a list of exceptional programs for students to review in the event the affiliated programs do not seem sufficient for the student's academic needs. rhodes community members may request a program be considered for inclusion on this list by communicating with the director of the buckman center for international education. off-campus study program transfer credit policies 1. for all transfer credit, it is the student’s responsibility to do the following: 1. verify that the program of study is a rhodes, exchange, or affiliated program, or has been successfully petitioned. 2. verify that courses intended to be taken in the major or minor area of study have been approved by the appropriate department or program chair in consultation with the faculty adviser. such approval is granted only through the signature of the department or program chair on the student’s off-campus study application. 3. request an official transcript with final grades from the program attended bethe educational program https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/77 37 of 52 7/25/23, 12:56 pm sent to: office of the registrar rhodes college 2000 n. parkway memphis, tn 38112 2. at the relevant academic department’s discretion, transfer courses taken abroad can be used to satisfy major and minor requirements. courses for transfer credit must be passed with a minimum of “c-” to be eligible for transfer credit. 3. credit should be approved prior to enrollment in courses. however, in some cases it may be necessary to postpone approval until course descriptions, syllabi, papers, and tests are examined. 4. should a student’s course selection change for any reason after submission of the application, substituted courses are not transferrable unless approved by an appropriate department or program chair. such approval must be sought immediately (i.e., email); copies of any such correspondence should also be directed to the director of the buckman center for international education and to the registrar. 5. students are strongly encouraged to contact the director of the buckman center for international education prior to final course registration at the host institution in order to confirm course credit approvals. retroactive approval may be sought but is not guaranteed and must be obtained before the conclusion of the first semester of the student’s return to rhodes. 6. to be accepted for credit, each course, whether for major/minor credit or elective credit, must be judged comparable in terms of content and quality to a course in the curriculum at rhodes or it must be judged to be consistent with the liberal arts and sciences curriculum and of a quality comparable to that expected of courses at rhodes. courses intended to be taken for major or minor credit must be approved by the appropriate department or program chair in consultation with the faculty adviser. such approval is granted only through the signature of the department or program chair on the student’s off campus study application. elective credit will be reviewed by the appropriate academic officer acting on behalf of the foundations curriculum committee. 7. students who study abroad on an affiliated program will normally satisfy the f11 requirement. in addition, students may, through appropriate course work, satisfy up to two additional foundation requirements while abroad on a semester-long program or up to three additional foundation requirements for a year-long program. the director of the buckman center for international education will recommend to thethe educational program https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/77 38 of 52 7/25/23, 12:56 pm foundations curriculum committee, in consultation with the registrar and other relevant faculty members as necessary, the appropriateness of the course(s) taken abroad for foundational credit. 8. programs vary greatly in their academic structure. at some universities abroad, three courses is considered a full load, while at others a full load may be as many as 8-9 courses. rhodes college students must maintain what is considered a full-time course load by both rhodes college and the institution abroad. normally, a student cannot earn more credit while on a semester study program than could have been earned in a regular semester at rhodes. failure to satisfactorily complete coursework needed to maintain satisfactory academic progress for financial aid purposes may result in the loss of financial aid renewal eligibility. 9. no strict correlation exists between contact hours in courses taken off-campus and credits awarded by rhodes. many european institutions utilize the ects crediting system in which one ects credit is comparable to one-half credit at rhodes. for example, a course worth 8 ects credits will normally transfer to rhodes as 4 credits. if the host program’s transcript does not translate easily to “american” credit (e.g., credits, quarter hours, semester hours, units) or does not provide a conversion scale, or if the host institution’s academic calendar differs significantly from the rhodes semester calendar, the following statement can act as general principle: a student pursuing a fully approved, full-time program of coursework on study abroad for a period roughly equivalent to rhodes’ fall or spring semester will usually receive 16 transfer credits from rhodes upon the successful completion of all coursework. successful completion is defined as earning a grade equivalent to “c-” or better in each course. 10. all courses should be taken for graded credit. printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/educational-program/opportunities-study-abroad- and-domestic-campus-study requirements for a degree rhodes college offers a four-year program of study in the liberal arts and sciences leading to the bachelor of arts or the bachelor of science degree. candidates for either degree must complete the foundation requirements. students majoring in a science may earn the bachelor of science degree. rhodes also offers a master of science degree in accounting and a master of arts degree in urban education. the bachelor’s degreethe educational program https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/77 39 of 52 7/25/23, 12:56 pm the bachelor’s degree is granted to students who have completed the required 128 credits and the appropriate degree requirements. the degree requirements under the foundations curriculum include at least thirteen courses (52 credits) and as many as sixteen courses (64 credits) as described below. although 52 total credits are required, several of these credits will be satisfied by courses taken in a particular major. moreover, the total number of credits required to satisfy the writing and language requirements may vary because the foreign language requirement may be satisfied by successful completion of a proficiency exam. in addition, some courses satisfy more than one foundation requirement, effectively decreasing the number of required courses. thus, the number of credits available for electives is dependent upon several factors: the major, whether the degree is the bachelor of arts or the bachelor of science, how many courses a student must take to satisfy the writing and language requirements, and how many courses outside the major a student must take to satisfy the foundation requirements. once the degree is conferred, no additional course work may be taken and applied to that degree. additional course work may be applied toward a second degree or taken in a non- degree seeking status, however. bachelor of arts. the bachelor of arts degree is awarded to those students who complete the degree requirements as stated above and more fully described below, including the completion of the requirements for a major as outlined in the appropriate section of this catalog. bachelor of science. the bachelor of science degree may be earned by students who complete the appropriate requirements for a degree with a major in biology, biochemistry and molecular biology, biomathematics, chemistry, computer science, environmental science, mathematics, neuroscience, or physics. self-designed interdisciplinary majors may earn a bachelor of science degree if all of the departments involved offer a bs degree or if at least one of the departments involved offers a bs degree, the major requires at least 28 credits of natural sciences and math, and the student completes a total of at least 36 credits of the natural sciences and math. please see the interdisciplinary studies section of the catalogue for a fuller description of self-designed interdisciplinary majors. although the college, through various advising methods, assists a student in planning and following a program of study which will lead to a degree, the student is ultimately responsible for keeping track of progress toward a degree, for knowing and fulfilling all degree and major requirements, and for arranging a course of study accordingly. total credits for the degree a total of 128 credits are required for the bachelor’s degree. a student must earn at least 50 percent of these credits at rhodes. the senior year, defined as 32 credits or the last 25the educational program https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/77 40 of 52 7/25/23, 12:56 pm percent of the total credits required, must be spent in residence. no more than eight (8) of these credits may be transfer credits. a student must earn a cumulative grade point average of no less than 2.00 (c) to qualify for the degree. a student may apply toward a degree a maximum of eight (8) credits in internships. a maximum combined total of credits equaling 25 percent of the degree requirement may be earned through advanced placement, cambridge pre-u, international baccalaureate, and option international baccalaureate examinations. a student earning both transfer credits and advanced placement, cambridge pre-u, international baccalaureate and/or option international baccalaureate credits may apply those credits to a rhodes degree up to a maximum combined total of fifty percent of the total credits required for a degree. concentration of study in a major discipline students’ majors may be directly related to an anticipated vocation, but that is not their primary purpose in a liberal arts curriculum. the qualities of mind and abilities that will serve students best in their careers are developed within the curriculum as a whole. the major is a refinement of intellectual discipline and a deepening of understanding of an area of study. the academic enrichment gained through a major affords access to other disciplines as well as an appreciation of the complexity of other fields of study. students should consider carefully how all of the courses they select can enrich and complement work done in the major. the choice of elective courses the rhodes curriculum is designed specifically to offer students opportunities to combine a carefully structured and intense study of at least one subject with the broad and diverse understanding that is characteristic of an education in the liberal arts and sciences. although required to meet certain objectives, the foundation courses may be selected from a wide range of course offerings. these are only the beginning of a student’s exploration of the fields of human knowledge and creativity. in selecting courses beyond these requirements and outside the major discipline, students should consider the ways in which their education can be broadened, complemented, and enriched. participation in co-curricular activities a comprehensive liberal arts education includes regular engagement with cultural activities and diverse perspectives not only in the classroom, but also in the college community and in communities beyond the college. students become full participants in the campus community as they join others in a variety of extra-curricular and co-curricular activities. these include student government, music ensembles, athletics, campusthe educational program https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/77 41 of 52 7/25/23, 12:56 pm publications, theatre productions, and many others. service-learning opportunities, international education opportunities, and undergraduate research provide students and faculty with ways to integrate classroom and laboratory work with out-of-class experiences, and a student’s experience in a course can be enriched in significant ways by the selection of complementary co-curricular activities. the major a student must complete any one of the department-based majors, one of the interdisciplinary majors listed elsewhere in this catalogue or an approved interdisciplinary major formulated in consultation with faculty members. detailed descriptions of the department-based majors are given under the departmental descriptions in the section entitled “courses of instruction.” the interdisciplinary majors are described in the section “interdisciplinary study,” no major may require more than fifty percent of the total credits required for the degree. at least fifty percent of the course requirements for a major or minor must be rhodes credit. all majors require a capstone experience that gives the students an opportunity to demonstrate their progress towards the educational goals established for their majors. this capstone experience usually includes demonstrations of proficiency in wiriting and speaking and a familiarity with the foundations and contemporary concerns of the major discipline. a 2.00 (c) grade point average in the major is required for graduation. the major grade point average is determined by computing the grade point average of all courses required for the major as described in this catalog and any other courses taken in the declared major. the computation of a major grade point average for an interdisciplinary major shall include all courses described as required and as elective courses. a student pursuing a double major or a second bachelor’s degree may use no more than four (4) of the same courses to satisfy requirements in both majors unless specified as required by one or both of the majors. in the case of changes in the requirement for a major, students may follow the requirements stated in the catalogue that defines their general degree requirements or in any later catalogue except in cases where changes in departmental course offerings makes the original major requirements impossible to meet. declaration of a major. students must declare an intended major or majors no later than mid-term of the spring semester of their sophomore year. students in good standing will be accepted as majors by any department they may choose but must first discuss their suitability for work in the department with the department’s chairperson. at the same time the prospective major should make a tentative plan of course work to be completed in thethe educational program https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/77 42 of 52 7/25/23, 12:56 pm student’s remaining semesters. a faculty advisor from the major department is assigned or selected by each new major to aid in this planning. forms for declaring a major are available online here. students declaring two majors will have an advisor in each major department, but one advisor will be designated as the primary advisor. students who are delinquent in filing a declaration of major will not be allowed to register for classes until the appropriate form is received by the registrar. while students may change majors, changes made after the sophomore year may be difficult to accommodate in the remaining semesters. interdisciplinary major. some students prefer to study in an area that can best be covered by combining the work in two or even three academic departments. interdisciplinary majors are important ways in which the faculty can meet the special academic needs of these students. the section listing titled “interdisciplinary study” summarizes existing interdisciplinary major requirements for pre-approved curriculum structures. students who wish to declare any of the established interdisciplinary majors may do so by filing the normal declaration of major form with the office of the registrar. any deviation from the program of study outlined in the description must be approved by the chairpersons of the departments involved. students who wish to declare an interdisciplinary major that does not have a program of study already defined should follow the appropriate steps in order to secure the necessary approvals within a reasonable time and to ensure an adequate review of the proposed program of study. those steps are detailed in the “interdisciplinary studies” section of this catalogue. the proposed program of study must include specific provisions for a senior seminar or integrating senior experience. the “declaration of interdisciplinary major” form, available online, is used to record the approvals and to advise the registrar of the college. intent to graduate form all candidates for degrees must submit to the registrar an “intent to graduate” form at least two semesters prior to the intended date of graduation. the college expects all students to conduct themselves as responsible citizens of our academic community. persistent or extreme departures from this standard may be sufficient cause for suspension or expulsion at any time prior to graduation. students under academic or disciplinary suspension are not permitted to graduate from rhodes until eligible for readmission. students under academic or disciplinary expulsion are permanently separated from the college and not permitted to graduate from rhodes. expulsion may occur at any time before a diploma is awarded. if a student is the subject of a pending college investigation at the time of graduation, thethe educational program https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/77 43 of 52 7/25/23, 12:56 pm student may not be eligible to graduate. rhodes also reserves the right to exclude from graduation persons who are the subject of an ongoing state or federal criminal process at the time of graduation. in such cases, no refunds of tuition, fees, or room and board will be made, and the college, its students, faculty, administrative judicial committees, and officers shall not be under any liability. commencement rhodes requires attendance at the may commencement exercises by all candidates for a degree including candidates whose work was completed in december and candidates whose work will be completed in august. students who complete degree work in december are included in the graduating class in may of the next calendar year. rhodes will recognize students who complete degree work in august as members of the preceding may’s graduating class. in order to participate in commencement exercises, august candidates must be within near-expectation of completing the requirements for a degree and have the approval of the faculty standards and standings committee or the dean of the faculty, if the standards and standings committee cannot be convened in a timely manner. the college confers degrees (signified by the date of the degree of the diploma and in official records) at the end of each regular semester (december and may) and in august, but diplomas are awarded only at the may commencement. academic minors academic minors are available to students who wish to supplement their major field of study with another academic area, giving both more depth and breadth to their course work. in addition to departmental minors, interdisciplinary minors are available within the established interdisciplinary programs in the curriculum. normally, a student is required to complete at least five specified courses to earn a minor. at least four of the courses in the minor must be outside the requirements of the student's major or majors and any other minors. forms for declaring a minor are available online and should be completed no later than the beginning of the fall semester of the senior year. a student must earn a grade point average of 2.00 in the courses required for an academic minor in order for the minor to be posted to the final academic record. undergraduate certificates undergraduate certificate programs at rhodes college provide additional, often interdisciplinary undergraduate coursework beyond the major/minor. each certificate program offers a carefully designed sequence of courses focusing on an area supplemental to the student's discipline, which may encompass multiple disciplines andthe educational program https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/77 44 of 52 7/25/23, 12:56 pm help build knowledge and skills in a specific area. certificates can enhance student credentials and offer additional career opportunities. an undergraduate certificate program offers a focused form of study. these programs are appropriate for graduate study preparation or professional development. certificate offerings can respond with agility to the evolving needs of the professions, student preferences, and funding opportunities. requirements for enrollment in an undergraduate certificate program: 1. students must be currently enrolled rhodes degree-seeking undergraduate students. 2. additional criteria for admission, such as gpa and prerequisite course work, may be established within individual program guidelines. second degree a student may earn a second bachelor’s degree upon earning at least 32 credits beyond the total credits required for the first degree and completion of all requirements for a second major. a student may not earn two bachelor of arts degrees or two bachelor of science degrees. a student planning to earn a second degree must declare that intention no later than the beginning of the last semester of enrollment. all academic work for both degrees is included in the cumulative grade point average of the double degree recipient. a rhodes graduate who wishes to return to the college to earn a second undergraduate degree must earn an additional 32 credits beyond the number of hours earned for the first degree as well as complete the second major. for a returning student, a second cumulative grade point average will be computed using only the additional hours earned for the second degree. changes in degree requirements a student may satisfy the requirements for a rhodes degree as described in any catalogue that has been in effect during the student’s enrollment. students readmitted to rhodes may graduate under requirements in effect during the original period of enrollment or by following a program incorporating features of the current catalog, including the number of credits required for graduation, and the earlier degree requirements and approved by the standards and standing committee. students may not declare a major if it has been dropped from the college’s curriculum, even if the major was available at the time of enrollment. in addition, degree and/or major requirements may have to be modified in order to fit current curricular offerings. academic achievementthe educational program https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/77 45 of 52 7/25/23, 12:56 pm the candidate for the degree who attains a cumulative grade point average of 3.95 in all rhodes work will be recommended for the degree summa cum laude. the candidate for the degree who attains a cumulative grade point average of 3.85 in all rhodes work will be recommended for the degree magna cum laude. the candidate for the degree who attains a cumulative grade point average of 3.50 in all rhodes work will be recommended for the degree cum laude. the major with honors requires special independent study work in the major field during the senior year. the honors program is described under opportunities for individualized study. rhodes does not rank its graduates. awarding of posthumous degrees a posthumous degree may be awarded to a deceased undergraduate student who was within 16 credits of the completion of the requirements for graduation or to a deceased graduate student who was within 6 credits of the completion of the requirements for graduation. the student must have been enrolled during the past two regular semesters. the remaining credits would have completed all degree requirements, and the cumulative and major gpa requirements must be met. the appropriate degree may be awarded posthumously on the recommendation of the dean of the faculty with the approval of the faculty standards and standing committee and the president. the student’s transcript will show a notation that the degree was awarded posthumously. post-baccalaureate certificate post-baccalaureate certificate programs at rhodes college provide additional, undergraduate or graduate coursework beyond the baccalaureate degree and major/minor. each certificate program offers a carefully designed sequence of courses focusing on an area supplemental to the student's discipline, which may encompass multiple disciplines and help build knowledge and skills in a specific area. unlike masters programs, post-baccalaureate certificates are not degree programs. certificate curriculum may be composed of undergraduate or graduate courses. post- baccalaureate certificates also differ from majors and minors in that they are undertaken after the awarding of the baccalaureate degree. moreover, certificate programs may include a significant experiential component directed toward professional development. certificate offerings can respond with agility to the evolving needs of the professors, student preferences, and funding opportunities. requirements for enrollment in a post-baccalaureate certificate program • student must have earned a baccalaureate degree from an accredited institution.the educational program https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/77 46 of 52 7/25/23, 12:56 pm • students applying for a rhodes post-baccalaureate program must have a 2.5 minimum undergraduate gpa in order to be accepted. additional criteria for admission, such as a higher gpa, standardized test scores, and prerequisite coursework may be established within individual program guidelines. • undergraduate courses counting towards a baccalaureate degree cannot also be used as coursework towards completing the post-baccalaureate certificate. • to remain enrolled, students must maintain a 2.5 gpa in all coursework and be satisfactorily attentive to their responsibilities in experiential components of the program. ap/cambridge pre-u/ib/oib credit evaluation a maximum of 32 credits may be earned through advanced placement, cambridge pre-u, international baccalaureate, and option international baccalaureate examinations. it is the responsibility of the student to have official reports of examination scores in advanced placement, cambridge pre-u, international baccalaureate, and/or option international baccalaureate sent to rhodes college. student copies of score reports are not acceptable for formal evaluation. receipt of official score reports and formal evaluation of ap/cambridge pre-u/ib/oib score reports must be completed within 10 weeks of the beginning of a student’s first semester of enrollment as a degree-seeking student at rhodes. transfer students students who transfer to rhodes have their previous college work evaluated for transfer credit upon their acceptance for admission. credit will be awarded following the guidelines outlined below for the evaluation of academic work for transfer credit. transfer students are responsible for having final copies of transcripts sent from each institution attended. official evaluation of transfer credit will not be completed until these final transcripts have been received in the office of the registrar. as degree candidates, transfer students must satisfy all of the degree requirements outlined in this catalogue. of the total credits required for a rhodes degree, a minimum fifty percent must be earned at rhodes and a maximum of fifty percent may be accepted as transfer and advanced placement credit. transfer credit for students who transfer to rhodes will be evaluated following these guidelines according to the foundation requirements: 1. courses presented with two or three semester hours or less than six quarter hours will be given the appropriate and corresponding number of credits of transfer credit. 2. credit from several courses may be combined to total four or more credits andthe educational program https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/77 47 of 52 7/25/23, 12:56 pm therefore satisfy a foundation requirement. 3. a three-credit course may be used to satisfy a foundation requirement if the corresponding course in the department meets that same requirement. 4. a three-credit course may be used to satisfy a major requirement if the corresponding course in the department meets that same requirement unless specifically disallowed by the department chair. transfer credit credit from other institutions. rhodes students may enroll in courses at other colleges and universities and transfer credits to rhodes. a student who desires to have academic work transferred from another institution must have the work approved in advance by the appropriate academic department chairperson at rhodes and by the registrar, acting on behalf of the education program committee. courses not receiving prior approval may not be accepted for transfer credit at the discretion of the department chair and the registrar. students seeking concurrent enrollment at another institution during a regular semester must have permission from the standards and standing committee prior to registering at the other institution. concurrent enrollment credits are included in the computation of the total credits permitted in one semester but are not included in the determination of full-time status. course credit earned at another institution during non-approved concurrent enrollment may not be accepted for transfer credit. it is the responsibility of the student to ensure that an official transcript from the other institution is forwarded to the registrar at rhodes. final evaluation of transfer work must be completed within twelve (12) weeks of the completion of the course(s) in question. in some departments, a proficiency examination must be passed in order for the transfer credit to be accepted. transfer credit may not be used to satisfy a foundation requirement. rhodes students who study abroad in a long-term program that has been pre-approved through the buckman center for international education will normally satisfy the f11 requirement, unless the program has been noted by the center’s director as particularly unsuitable for this purpose. in addition, students may, through appropriate course work, satisfy up to two additional foundation requirements while abroad (or up to three additional foundation requirements for a year-long-program). the director of the buckman center will recommend to the foundations curriculum committee, in consultation with the registrar, and other faculty members as necessary, the appropriateness of the course(s) taken abroad for foundations credit. this recommendation will be done in accordance with guidelines as provided by the foundations curriculum committee.the educational program https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/77 48 of 52 7/25/23, 12:56 pm credit from special programs. students wishing to participate in special programs at other collegiate institutions are required to obtain permission and approval in advance from the appropriate academic officer acting on behalf of the faculty education program committee. in most cases, this approval will come from the director of the buckman center, the registrar, and the chair of the department at rhodes in which the coursework will be pursued. the registrar, in consultation with department chairpersons and the dean of the faculty, must approve all work at other institutions in advance of beginning the work. in some cases it may be necessary to postpone approval until course syllabi, papers, and tests are examined. all credit earned on study abroad programs, exchange programs, and cooperative programs such as washington semester is evaluated as transfer credit. transfer credit guidelines. the following guidelines are used in evaluating academic work from other institutions for transfer credit: • to be accepted for credit, each course must be judged comparable in terms of content and quality to a course in the curriculum at rhodes or it must be judged to be consistent with the liberal arts and science curriculum and of a quality comparable to that expected of courses at rhodes. departmental chairpersons make these judgments; in many cases the registrar of the college can act with the authority of departmental chairpersons. in some departments, a proficiency examination must be passed in order for the transfer credit to be accepted. the chairpersons and the registrar assign credit toward a degree in such a way as to match comparable work at rhodes. • the course work must be taken on the campus of an accredited college or university or while on a study abroad program approved through the buckman center for international education. online courses, distance education courses, and dual credit courses taught in a high school are not accepted for transfer credit. • transfer credit may not be used to satisfy a foundation requirement with the following exception: rhodes students who study abroad in a long-term program that has been pre-approved through the buckman center for international education will normally satisfy the f11 requirement, unless the program has been noted by the center’s director as particularly unsuitable for this purpose. in addition, students may satisfy up to two additional foundation requirements while abroad (or up to three additional foundation requirements for a year-long program). the director of the buckman center will recommend to the foundations curriculum committee, in consultation with the registrar, and other faculty members as necessary, the appropriateness of the course(s) taken abroad for foundations credit. this recommendation will be done in accordance with guidelines as provided by the foundations curriculum committee. • no more than twelve transfer credits may be earned in any one summer. • all course work taken at other institutions for which rhodes receives a transcript willthe educational program https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/77 49 of 52 7/25/23, 12:56 pm be evaluated for transfer credit, and if pre-approved for transfer credit, will be posted to the student’s record. • a maximum of 64 credits or fifty percent of the total credit required for a degree may be accepted towards a rhodes degree. no student may earn additional transfer credit once that credit limit has been reached. • transfer credits based on a quarter system are converted to the rhodes credit basis using the formula that one quarter-hour equals two-thirds credit. fractional transfer credits will be credited. • students earning both transfer credits and advanced placement, cambridge pre-u, international baccalaureate, and/or option international baccalaureate credits may apply a maximum combined total of fifty percent of the total credit required for a degree to the rhodes degree. a student with such credit must earn at least fifty percent of the total credit required for a degree in residence at rhodes. • of the 32 credits earned to qualify for the senior year in residence, a maximum of eight credits may be transfer credit. • transfer credits are not accepted if the grade is d+ or below. transfer courses taken on a pass/fail basis must be passed with a grade of c or better. confirmation of such a grade must be received by the registrar before the course will be accepted for transfer credit. transfer credits are credited to the rhodes transcript as credits only; they are not computed in or used to determine the grade point average. • courses taken on a college campus prior to matriculation by accepted students, including those which are taken in conjunction with a dual enrollment program at the secondary school level, will be accepted for credit under the same guidelines as stated above, including review by the appropriate department at rhodes, only if such coursework does not satisfy high school graduation requirements or requirements for admission to rhodes. such courses must be taken on a college campus, not in a high school even if taught by collegiate faculty. credit for such courses must be requested during the summer prior to enrollment at rhodes. students who have not graduated from high school who present such courses for transfer credit are not considered transfer students. printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/educational-program/requirements-degree the paul barret, jr. library, information services barret library, made possible by a major gift from the paul barret, jr. trust, opened in august, 2005. paul barret, jr., a graduate of the class of 1946 who died in 1999, was the nephew of mr. and mrs. a.k. burrow, who provided for the construction of the 1953 burrow library. barret library is home to information services (under academic affairs), a union of librarythe educational program https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/77 50 of 52 7/25/23, 12:56 pm services, information technology services, and academic technology services. together, the division is committed to providing acquisition, organization, and circulation of resources with a wide range of technology resources to support the diverse work of faculty, staff, and students; as well as instruction to classes and individuals in effective information and technology literacy. services offered in barret library include a 24-hour study space (middle ground), group study rooms, and assistance with technology and academic research. also included in the barret library are areas for peer-tutoring, writing assistance, computer labs, the digital media lab, podcast/recording room, and the distraction reduced testing room for those students registered with the office of student accessibility services. information services staff support over 150 technology-equipped classrooms and event spaces across campus. the library collection includes materials that constitute valuable resources for undergraduate instruction in a liberal arts institution. this collection has been carefully built over a period of years by the teaching faculty with input from students and the information services staff. the research catalog is part of worldcat, which connects and shares thousands of library catalogs across the country. the interface allows you to see holdings within other libraries as well. the collection includes access to a large amount of online content including electronic journals, e-books, databases, and film streaming services that support the college’s curriculum. in addition to the reference and circulating collections there are four special collections: the rhodes archives, the richard halliburton collection, the walter p. armstrong, jr. book collection and the shelby foote collection, made possible through the generosity of riea and steve lainoff. the walter p. armstrong, jr. book collection includes special items of value added to the library through the years and the collection of first editions of english and american authors, many of them autographed. the halliburton collection consists of manuscripts and artifacts relating to the life of this noted travel adventure writer. the rhodes archives consists of publications about rhodes of an historical nature as well as student honors papers and books written by faculty and alumni. the archives also retains all available copies of college publications including yearbooks, catalogues, the student newspaper and handbooks. there is an extensive collection of still images which document life at the college. dlynx, the archives digital repository, provides access to digital items of historical value and materials created by faculty, staff, and students. these materials include: digital copies of the sou’wester, the student newspaper, student honor papers, and hundreds of images of student life from past decades. the sou’wester, the student newspaper, has been digitized from november 1919 to the present date. the ranking web of world repositories” lists dlynx as 113 out of 1646 digital collections in north america which places it in the top 10%.the educational program https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/77 51 of 52 7/25/23, 12:56 pm in order to effect optimum inter-institutional library service to the students, faculty, and staff of the greater memphis consortium, the barret library joins the following libraries in making their collections available to each other’s students and faculty: christian brothers university library, hollis f. price library of lemoyne-owen college, ned w. mcwherter library of the university of memphis, and the memphis theological seminary library. students are also entitled to library cards in the memphis public library, which is an especially valuable community resource. the barret library operates an active and invaluable interlibrary loan service for its faculty and students with libraries outside the memphis area. printed from: https://catalog.rhodes.edu/educational-program/paul-barret-jr-library- information-servicesthe educational program https://catalog.rhodes.edu/book/export/html/77 52 of 52 7/25/23, 12:56 pm courses of instruction afs 105 introduction to africana studies term: spring, fall credits: 4 africana studies is the convergence and coalescence of interdisciplinary and intersectional approaches to the study of black life on both sides of the atlantic/across the diaspora from the 17th century to the present. this course introduces participants to the field of africana studies through its key ideas, theoretical considerations, and substantive concerns. after beginning with a critical overview of the history (or framing) of the discipline, the course is divided into six thematic units that examine art/aesthetics, religion, gender/sexuality, social structures, space/geographies and the body. these areas constitute central spaces of analysis within africana studies. degree requirementstable of contents general information programs of study the educational program matters of record login f9 afs 150 themes in africana studies term: spring, fall credits: 4 this introductory course examines african and/or africana diasporic experiences through a thematic approach. this thematic exploration may cover historical, cultural, theoretical, literary or structrual aspects of the black experience broadly defined. students will develop an appreciation for the complexity and difersity of african and africana diasporic realities. afs 205 selected topics in africana studies term: spring, fall credits: 4 introduction to selected topics in africana studies. topics vary with instructor./uni00a0may be repeated for credit when topics vary. afs 220 malcolm, martin, baldwin, and america credits: 4 malcolm x, martin luther king jr., and james baldwin were critical figures in the us civil rights movement. though united in a quest for racial justice, they articulated distinct—and, at times, conflicting—perspectives on the source of racial injustice and the path toward racial wholeness. this course will engage the social thought and religious faith of these three intellectual leaders, focusing on their trenchant critique of religion in america and the relevance of faith to social justice. we will also discern the significance of their thought for contemporary social justice movements. degree requirements f1 afs 305 africana theory term: spring credits: 4 africana theory is an experience in critical thought, which makes legible - through lexicon and perspective - the unique subjectivities and experiences of the african diaspora./uni00a0 this course is both an invitation to and an endeavoring within a “new” set of criticisms collectivized at the point where racial discourse meets or engenders blackness and/or african diasporic identities./uni00a0 it will introduce particular ways of reading and specific ways of theorizing the blackness of texts, bodies, culture, and experience. grounded within literary, critical, and cultural theory, and considering questions from the epistemological to the existential, it will equip the serious student with the lenses, language(s), and vocabularies necessary to responsibly and accurately read the varied textualities signified by the idea/concept of africana. /uni00a0 /uni00a0 afs 310 the black freedom struggle credits: 4 this course will explore the evolution of african american freedom struggles over the course of the twentieth century. it will survey the critical organizations, institutions, and figures of the black freedom struggle and will examine the ideological diversity of a dynamic, often contentious struggle that encompassed ever-shifting combinations of uplift politics, black nationalism, liberalism, conservatism, and leftism. it will explore critical black lives over the course of the semester, including ida b. wells, booker t. washington, marcus garvey, pauli murray, martin luther king, jr., malcolm x, fannie lou hamer, angela davis, the founders of black lives matter, contemporary prison abolitionists, and others. the course will also introduce students to foundational debates and issues through the interdisciplinary lens of africana studies. additionally, it will push students to ponder how the political, socioeconomic, and cultural endeavors of african americans have and continue to alter conventional understandings of "freedom," "justice," "democracy," and "equity" within and beyond the united states. afs 350 race thinking and health disparities term: spring credits: 4 focusing on the experiences of african americans, this course will examine the relationship between race as a social construction, the social determinants of health disparities, and bias in healthcare delivery. we will examine how the concept of race developed and how it became embedded in law and social structures with the result that african-americans face greater exposures to health hazards, lower quality of care, and structural stigma that negatively aﬀect health outcomes. anso 103 introductory anthropology term: spring, fall credits: 4 anthropology, in the largest sense of the discipline, is the study of what it is to be human. in attempting to understand the diversity of thought and behavior that is characteristic of humans, we better understand ourselves, our potentials and our limitations. further, the process of listening to and learning from others allows us to grant dignity and respect to those that we might otherwise naively dismiss as “primitives.” this course covers the basic data, concepts, and theories of cultural anthropology placing emphasis on the foundations of human society, social organization, culture, and symbol systems. not open to seniors. degree requirements f9 anso 105 introductory sociology term: spring, fall credits: 4 sociology emerged in the late nineteenth century as an attempt to understand and explain the unprecedented changes in social organization and human relations resulting from modernization. this course provides a general overview of the sociological concepts, theories, and empirical research that concern the problems of modernity and contemporary american society. the naive, popular view of individuals as “free-standing, autonomous subjects” is critically assessed and a more comprehensive understanding of individuals as “social” selves that are both products and producers of institutions and social relationships is examined. in addition to introducing students to the field of sociology, the course aims to cultivate self-understanding and critical insight into the conditions of contemporary existence, including social stratification by race, social class, and gender. not open to seniors. degree requirements f8 anso 201 human evolution: the intersections of biology, environment and culture term: spring, fall credits: 4 to understand our present physical and social condition, we must understand our evolutionary past. this course is an introduction the fundamentals that contribute to our understanding of human evolution--evolutionary biology, genetics, primatology, paleaontology, physical anthropology, geology and archaeology. you will learn about the methods involved in reconstructing ancient human anatomy, behavior, and use of their environments, which have situated our own evolutionary history (both biological and cultural) within the current world. through class lectures and discussions, we will address topics such as what makes us human, the validity of the concept of race, our relations to neanderthals and the beginning of the human manipulations of plants. degree requirements archaeology elective environmental studies elective f7 anso 202 understanding the past: archaeological perspectives on culture term: spring, fall credits: 4 what does it mean to be a human being and what makes us unique? the study of the past can shed light on the adaptability and variability of the human race as we expanded throughout the globe. in this course we will use archaeological data to understand the earliest cultures and how they gave rise to the myriad of human lifeways existing in the world today. degree requirements archaeology elective anso 207 archaeology of sex and gender term: fall credits: 4 this course focuses on sex and gender in prehistory and in archaeological theory. this course seeks to reconstruct the lives and roles of women, men, and children in a range of ancient societies, examining the ways that gendered diﬀerences have been portrayed in the past and the present and considering how we can approach the study of social identities and relations of power. we will examine how women contributed to subsistence, technological innovation, symbolic and ritual activity, and how they shared in or were denied social, political, and religious authority and power. we will also explore the contributions of women archaeologists and the intellectual history of gender and sexuality studies in anthropological archaeology. degree requirements archaeology elective gender and sexuality studies elective anso 211 peoples of sub-saharan africa and madagascar term: fall credits: 4 we all come from africa, yet most of us know little about our origins and little about subsequent cultural developments on the continent and surrounding islands./uni00a0 those developments include not only a wide-ranging variety of subsistence strategies, but also the origins of numerous and diverse independent complex states across the continent./uni00a0 this course provides an introduction to the prehistory, culture history, and contemporary cultures of sub-saharan africa and madagascar./uni00a0 it also includes the study of various cultural practices and theoretical issues that have continued to fascinate anthropologists and animate ethnological discussion, including state formation, witchcraft beliefs, oral traditions, and indigenous philosophy./uni00a0 african fiction and film will also be examined as important sources that can contribute to a fuller appreciation of african and malagasy culture. degree requirements f9 africana studies elective anso 215 the final frontier: peopling and peoples of the pacific term: fall credits: 4 the course will begin by examining why the pacific islands were the “final frontier” of the human occupation of the globe. the focus will then shift to the vast array of normal cultural strategies employed among pacific islanders regarding subsistence activities, social, political and economic organization, cosmological beliefs, and celebratory practices. anthropologists also use the information they acquire to reflect upon theoretical arguments concerning cultural organization and human practices. ethnographic studies in the pacific have contributed to ongoing discussions concerning non-market based economies, “primitive” warfare, varieties of celebration and decoration (e.g., the hula and tattooing), and marketing the “exotic” to the west. this course will also examine the contribution of pacific ethnography to such larger discussions in the field of anthropology./uni00a0 degree requirements f9 anso 221 north of the rio grande: indigenous people of north america term: spring, fall credits: 4 this is not a traditional course about native americans in north america. in this course, we will move beyond categorizing native peoples, their cultural beliefs and practices, and historical experiences according to familiar anthropological categories (e.g., “prehistory” and “band, tribe, chiefdom, state”). instead, you are encouraged to question conventional assumptions and stereotypes about and depictions of indigenous peoples and cultures of north america. we will discuss the social, economic, and political facets of what make these communities complex whether they are hunter-gatherers, horticulturalists, and/or capitalists. key topics, such as the historical development of the field of archaeology and anthropology, environmental interactions of native communities, cultural change and continuity, colonialism, and power will be explored. degree requirements f9 archaeology elective environmental studies elective anso 231 gender and society term: spring, fall credits: 4 this course examines how and why society prescribes diﬀerent gender expectations to men and women. in turn, we will discuss how those expectations aﬀect the experiences, attitudes, and opportunities of men and women in society. students will gain the conceptual and theoretical tools to analyze the personal, interactional, and institutional consequences of diﬀerent social constructions of gender. degree requirements gender and sexuality studies elective anso 233 sociology of sport term: fall credits: 4 this course provides an introduction to sociological perspectives in the study of sport. it focuses on sport as a cultural and social institution and explores the ways in which sports shape individuals’ identities and are shaped by broader cultural, political and economic forces. students will examine the intersections of race, class, gender and disability as they analyze the links between sports and the body, fandom, education, violence, the media, exploitation, and resistance. degree requirements f8 anso 235 sociology of the south term: spring credits: 4 the american south is known for its cultural distinctiveness. what is the south? what does it mean to be a southerner? how does being from or in the south impact one’s perspective on life? these are some of the questions explored in sociology of the south. this course examines the history, cultures, and experiences of the south and southerners with particular attention to inequality, past and present popular culture, its relationship with other regions, and its impact on science. anso 241 the city term: spring credits: 4 in this course, we will explore how cities are made, experienced, changed, and contested. we will examine urban processes in an eﬀort to better understand how urban places shape people’s lives and how people shape urban places. we will study how injustices are reproduced and challenged, particularly as they relate to issues of urban development, housing, transportation, poverty, surveillance and safety, immigration, tourism, planning, governance, and neighborhood change. we will explore our own positions within broader relations of domination, oppression, and resistance as well as our roles in imagining and creating alternative urban futures. /uni00a0 degree requirements educational studies elective urban studies elective anso 245 the sociology of community- integrative education term: spring, fall credits: 4 community-integrative education occupies a central place in american higher education. courses containing community-based learning can be found in virtually all disciplines and all types of colleges and universities. this course examines the historical emergence of community-integrative education, its institutional practice, variations and issues. intensive writing assignments and reflexive classroom discussions will guide student reflection on their community experience, classroom learning and personal development. degree requirements f2i f11 anso 251 nature and society: decentering humans term: spring credits: 4 european enlightenment emerged as a response to europe’s dark ages, a long era in which human reasoning and scientific explanations were condemned. the outcome of this process of “enlightenment” was the separation of humans from nature. due to this separation, humans were elevated above nature and nature was regarded solely as a passive resource to be controlled and exploited. this destructive human-nature distinction did not remain confined to what was human and what was not. it created categories of sub-humans, which included non-european non- christian people from the americas to southeast asia, as well as women. what emerged out of enlightenment was a patriarchal system which viewed nature and non-western people as primitive and exploitable. in this course we explore this history and its consequences in the past, present, and future. to do so, we will draw on critical approaches to science, political ecology, environmental justice, ecofeminism, indigenous wisdom, critical race theory, and posthumanism. these perspectives not only prepare us to deconstruct the abovementioned dichotomy, but also equip us with analytical perspectives which enable us to imagine a wholistic and inclusionary relationship between humans and non-humans through decentering humans. /uni00a0 anso 254 archaeological methods term: spring, fall credits: 4 this class will examine how we use archaeological materials to learn about past societies by studying the traces that their inhabitants left behind. students will explore the range of methods used in the field, laboratory, and museum to find, record, date, preserve, contextualize, and interpret material culture. basic methods of investigation and research will be discussed through the examination of site survey, excavation, and the analysis of artifacts. students will be introduced to various systems of archaeological classification and analytical techniques for understanding objects such as lithic artifacts, pottery, human skeletal remains, and other historic and prehistoric artifacts. artifact illustration, photography, cataloguing, and curating will also be discussed. (this course is cross-listed as archaeology 220). degree requirements archaeology elective greek and roman studies elective anso 255 field anthropology term: spring, fall credits: 1 - 4 this course allows students to gain credit for participation in oﬀ-campus field projects under professional supervision in the fields of archaeological, social anthropological, and physical anthropological research. students will be required to integrate academic and fieldwork experiences in an oral and/or written report at the end of the fieldwork experience. maximum of 4 hours credit is possible. anso 265 selected introductory topics in anthropology and sociology term: spring, fall credits: 4 introduction to selected themes and topics in anthropology and sociology. students may enroll and receive credit for this course more than once as the course themes and topics change. anso 271 ecological anthropology term: fall credits: 4 this course emphasizes the interconnectedness between people and nature. we will be concerned with people’s perceptions of and interactions with their physical and biological surroundings, and the various linkages between biological and cultural worlds. the goals of the class are to expose you to a broader understanding of the role of culture in sustaining the diversity of plant and animal life and also reveal the variety of choices involved in our human-environmental interactions. topics to be explored include human alteration of the environment, the processes of domestication, the ecology of indigenous and western foodways, traditional ecological knowledge of plants, natural resource sustainability, and conservation policies and politics through time and space. degree requirements archaeology elective environmental studies elective anso 273 gender and environment term: spring, fall credits: 4 this course explores how gender shapes our understanding and interactions with the environment. we will analyze how we construct and maintain particular views of gender and sexuality, and examine how our identifications produce, change, and maintain particular environments within both western and non-western worlds. within this class, we will shift between 1) discussions of philosophical and theoretical debates that underlie feminist environmental thinking and practice, and 2) examinations of tangible struggles over environment and gender within historical and geographical contexts. topics to be examined in this course include: feminist readings of “nature”; gender and the history of science; intersections between gender and sexuality in relations to global and local ecological issues, feminist political ecology; traditional ecological knowledge; environment and globalization; and environmental justice. degree requirements archaeology elective environmental studies elective anso 275 food and culture term: fall credits: 4 food is not only important as nutrition, but as a symbol of identity, a marker of status, a sealer of alliances and an item of social and economic currency. this course examines the myriad uses, meanings and impacts of food cross-culturally. this contributes to the mission of the department, giving students an in-depth view of one of the basic aspects of human cultures. students will come away with a more thoughtful and nuanced view of their own societal practices, as well as those of many others. we will take a critical view of human relationships with their environments, vis-à-vis food production in past and present communities. this class will serve not only for anthropology/sociology majors and minors, but also for students with an interest in archaeology and environmental studies and those in other disciplines who wish to broaden their understanding of one of the most important and basic aspects of our lives and societies. degree requirements environmental studies elective anso 290 learning from things: material culture studies term: fall credits: 4 while we are symbol users and inhabitants of imagined worlds, we are also toolmakers whose hands are dirtied in manipulating the world. this course will focus attention on materiality and our engagement with the material world. examples of material culture studies will be drawn from such disciplines as archaeology, anthropology, geography, history, folklore, popular culture, architecture, and museum studies. we will also use our everyday environments – from rhodes dorm rooms to greater memphis – as our laboratory, as we explore how our own material culture defines, enables, and circumscribes our cultural worlds. material culture studies, while a rich source of information, is also a challenging arena for the study of individuals, societies, and cultures, because objects speak neither unambiguously nor directly to us. students will come to appreciate how astute observation underpinned by theoretical acumen and the clever framing of questions can allow us to “learn from things.” (this course is cross-listed as archaeology 210.) degree requirements archaeology elective greek and roman studies elective anso 325 the maya and their world term: spring, fall credits: 4 this course draws on multiple perspectives to examine the shared practices, traditions, and worldviews that have defined maya cultures in the past and the present. we will examine the means through which we have come to understand prehispanic maya societies, exploring how archaeology, ethnohistory, anthropology, art history, and critical theory, as well as recent political history, activism, identity politics, and popular media have shaped our interpretations of the maya past. through the lens of 3000 years of continuities and transformations, we will consider the formation of ancient and modern maya identities in the face of collapse, migration, conquest, political upheaval, and violence. pre-requisites: any/uni00a0one/uni00a0of the following: either anso 103,/uni00a0or/uni00a0las 200,/uni00a0/uni00a0or/uni00a0permission of the instructor. degree requirements f3 f9 archaeology elective latin american studies elective anso 327 gender and power in latin america term: spring, fall credits: 4 this course looks at the construction of sex and gender in latin american societies, both past and present, exploring anthropological approaches to the study of social identities, gender relations, and the complex negotiation of power that they entail. we will examine anthropological, ethnohistoric, and archaeological evidence to understand gender roles and ideologies and con- sider how sex and gender intersect with ethnicity and social class in a range of prehispanic, colonial, and postcolonial societies. degree requirements archaeology elective gender and sexuality studies elective latin american studies elective prerequisites introductory anthropology introduction to latin american studies introduction to gender and sexuality studies gender and society anso 331 race and ethnicity in american society term: fall credits: 4 in this seminar course, students will explore how the socially-constructed catego-ries of race and ethnicity shape the lived experiences of people in the united states. we will address the roots and current expressions of racial prejudice and discrimination, examining how everyday racism and institutional racism produce and maintain inequality. together, we will work to understand how race and ethnicity influence our identities and opportunities. along the way, we will also critically assess how our actions can reproduce or work against racial inequality and injustice. by the end of the course, students will have the conceptual and theoretical tools to think sociologically about race relations in the united states. degree requirements africana studies elective educational studies elective urban studies elective prerequisites introductory anthropology introductory sociology anso 333 sociology of hip-hop credits: 4 /uni00a0this course uses an interdisciplinary and intersectional lens to examine the social, economic, and cultural significance of hip-hop domestically and globally in the post-civil rights era. drawing on work in hip-hop studies and the fields of sociology, cultural studies, and gender studies, this course roots the genealogy of hip-hop in other musical forms and analyzes hip-hop as a modern and comprehensive expressive form that provides critical reflection on social phenomena. not open to first-year students./uni00a0 degree requirements f9 africana studies elective gender and sexuality studies elective anso 335 social class in the united states term: spring, fall credits: 4 this course examines social class and inequality in american society. it draws on sociological understandings of economic stratification, socioeconomic status, class identity, class culture, and social mobility to address a set of big questions. how do people draw and reinforce symbolic boundaries between classes? how is inequality structured, reproduced and experienced through social institutions? what roles do policy, philanthropy, and social movements play in tackling manifestations of economic inequality? this course gives particular attention to the ways class intersects with other forms of stratification, including race, gender, and disability. /uni00a0 prerequisites: anthropology/sociology 103 or 105, or permission of the instructor. degree requirements urban studies elective anso 343 social movements term: spring, fall credits: 4 group mobilizations and social movements, on the one hand, have been and are transforming our social life, and on the other hand, have influenced how we perceive and experience our world and people around us. in this course, we will ask: when do we learn that we want a structural change? what does it take for a group of people to organize for change? why and when do we start to defy instead of accepting the status quo and abiding by the rules? why don’t we constantly protest to create our desired world? what do we lose, and what do we gain once we engage in contentious politics? how do people organize for collective action? how do they recruit their members or convince people to join? and how do they define their goals and choose their tactics and strategies? do movements die after they achieve their goals? are there similarities between movements across time and place? what are the criteria for successful social movements? anso 345 just food: race, class, and gender in the us south term: fall credits: 4 this course brings together theoretical perspectives from anthropology, food, environmental and black studies alongside hands-on, community-based experiences in memphis. through hands-on experiences at diﬀerent field sites, invited lectures and weekly discussions, students will engage in questions concerning: a) how to theorize, research, and address food inequalities across time and space; b) how to build food movements within and across lines of diﬀerence; and c) how diﬀerent forms of inequality intersect in the lives of memphis residents. the focus in this course is on southern cities due to the vast social and economic, food-based issues that community members face in these cities. food has a deep historical past and connection within this region and this course will help to explore the past, present and future those connections. our ultimate goal is to bring together students and community partners in synergistic ways to promote cultural engagement and problem-solving of our most pressing social, political, and economic issues of the 21st century – food equity. prerequisite: anso 103, or anso 105, or afs 105, envs 150, or permission of the instructor /uni00a0 degree requirements africana studies elective environmental studies elective gender and sexuality studies elective urban studies elective anso 347 medical sociology term: spring, fall credits: 4 medical sociology is the study of the socio-cultural factors that aﬀect health, illness, disease, and medical care. topics include epidemiology, social demography of health, the relationship between social stress and health, health and illness behavior, the physicianpatient relationship, and the organization of health care and medical practice. these topics will be studied through classroom lectures and discussions. this course is recommended for pre-med, health science majors, and social science majors. degree requirements urban studies elective prerequisites introductory sociology anso 351 introduction to social research term: fall credits: 4 how do we produce knowledge that is useful? the social sciences have a set of powerful tools for investigating the social world. this course provides a general introduction to the sociological research, including research design, data collection, basic analysis and interpretation of data and research ethics. a range of quantitative and qualitative research methods, such as surveys, in- depth interviews and participant observation are covered. students will translate their substantive interest into an empirical project. they will also develop the skills to make sense of published research and assess its quality. this course is restricted/uni00a0to anso/uni00a0majors and minors. any exceptions must be made by/uni00a0permission of the instructor. degree requirements educational studies elective prerequisites introductory sociology anso 352 ethnography at home: engaging in another world term: spring credits: 4 participant-observation is the methodological core of anthropology. yet, participant-observation is a critical qualitative method that should be exercised across all disciplines and professions that address the human condition. we will explore this assertion in practice and in discussion around the seminar table. this course will focus on the “doing” of ethnography by asking you to respectfully, socially, meaningfully, and sensuously engage with a moment in another’s world in the larger memphis community. one way to describe ethnography is as a compelling descriptive pause to appreciate another way of being in and giving meaning to the world before one begins sustained and systematic social analysis and theorizing. students will write a series of short papers that contribute toward the writing of a descriptive ethnography and the presentation of their findings to a campus audience. this course is restricted/uni00a0to anso/uni00a0majors and minors. any exceptions must be made by/uni00a0permission of the instructor. degree requirements f2i f11 prerequisites introductory anthropology anso 361 special problems term: fall credits: 1-4 designed to encourage senior or advanced junior majors to study intensively in an area of their special interest. anso 362 special problems term: spring credits: 1-4 designed to encourage senior or advanced junior majors to study intensively in an area of their special interest. anso 365 special topics in anthropology/sociology term: spring, fall credits: 4 this course emphasizes contemporary and emergent themes in the respective disciplines as a means of keeping students abreast of substantial developments in these dynamic fields of social inquiry. students may enroll and receive credit for this course more than once as the course theme changes. prerequisites introductory anthropology introductory sociology anso 371 psychological anthropology term: spring credits: 4 anthropologists argue that rather than seeing the mind of “the other” as an imperfect or incomplete version of our own, we must approach it as an “alternative form.” in this course we will be investigating questions such as: do members of non-western cultures “sense and think” like members of western cultures? do individuals from a non-literate culture actually reason diﬀerently from members of a literate culture? is one culture’s schizophrenic another culture’s saint? are some psychological disorders specific to certain cultures? why is it that close to 90% of the world’s cultures sanction some form of an altered state of consciousness? this course is recommended for students of both anthropology and psychology. degree requirements f9 anso 372 alternative realities: symbols, rituals, world views term: spring credits: 4 humans are always searching for meaning and order beyond the limits of the activities that are needed to guarantee their immediate survival. this course will consider the role of symbolic activity in the construction and maintenance of coherent and comprehensive systems of meaning that integrate human experience with the workings of the larger world or cosmos. degree requirements f9 prerequisites introductory anthropology anso 374 nationalism, identity, and belonging term: spring credits: 4 wo world wars engulfed large areas of the world and impacted large populations inside and outside europe. in the post-world war ii era, with the rise of international organizations and globalization, many argued that we have moved into a new epoch and context in which traditional nation-states will increasingly lose their power. these thinkers were proven wrong. the rise of nationalist movements which promoted discourses of exclusion and self-determination, at times through violent means, shows how nation-states, their border and boundaries, and ideologies of nationalism, are here to stay as the major geopolitical actors. this course, through a historical lens, investigates the scholarly debates around nationalism and nation-building processes to learn: what are nations, and what is nationalism? how are nations built and preserved? what role do history, memory and law play in these processes? how do nationalism and national belonging manifest themselves in our daily practices? what is the relationship between national identity and citizenship? what role do borders and boundaries play in nation-building projects? /uni00a0 prerequisites introductory anthropology introductory sociology anso 375 anthropology and the written word credits: 4 this course examines various issues involving orality and literacy and their consequences for ourselves and others whose lives we wish to understand. the cultural contexts surrounding the invention and use of writing systems as well as the eﬀects of literacy on mind and society will also be studied. anthropologists use writing to record some of their knowledge about other peoples and cultures. while anthropologists have produced numerous “scholarly” texts, they have also pursued other writing projects: autobiographies of individuals from non-western societies, poetry, novels, science fiction and literary texts, which may or may not conform to western literary traditions. this course will not only explore some of these genres of writing but will involve a component of creative writing as well. prerequisites introductory anthropology anso 377 migration, dislocation, and transnationalism in latin america and the u.s. term: fall credits: 4 this course explores contemporary issues and debates surrounding migration between latin america and the u.s. and within latin america. we will critically examine the causes of displacement, the eﬀects of dislocation on migrants and their home communities, and the transborder, transnational ties that characterize migrant families and migrant labor in a globalized world. themes for exploration include: changing conceptions of “the borderlands” and immigration policy; the security state, militarization of the border, and migrant detention; labor conditions and vulnerable, migratory work forces; drugs, violence, and organized crime; sex, gender, and migration; the politics and rhetoric of dehumanization; and resistance and activism at the border. pre-requisite:/uni00a0any one of the following: anso 103, anso 105, ltns 200, or permission of the instructor /uni00a0 degree requirements latin american studies elective anso 379 from the global to the local: anthropology of social change term: spring credits: 4 this course oﬀers a critical examination of the interaction between industrial nations of the developed world and indigenous and tribal societies of the third and fourth worlds. geographical focus will vary according to the instructor’s area of expertise. topics covered will include most or all of the following: a concept of “progress,” human rights, environmental ethics, indigenous movements, the politics of development, and cultural tourism. pre-requistes: any/uni00a0one/uni00a0of the following: either anso 103,/uni00a0or/uni00a0las 200,/uni00a0or/uni00a0gss 200,/uni00a0or/uni00a0permission of the instructor. degree requirements educational studies elective latin american studies elective anso 380 explorations in social theory term: fall credits: 4 the major goal of this course is to help students identify and understand explanations of the social world and social actors that have become elevated to the status of social theory. lectures will present certain “classical” directions of thought in social analysis. students will undertake “critical” analyses of primary sources and write a series of reflective essays on their intellectual engagement with theoretical schools. these essays will serve as foci for seminar format sessions during the semester. this course is restricted/uni00a0to anso/uni00a0majors and minors. any exceptions must be made by/uni00a0permission of the instructor. prerequisites introductory anthropology introductory sociology anso 391 racism term: fall credits: 4 race is a socially constructed term that has real world implications that have historically resulted in acts of racism perpetuated on members of subordinate groups. this course provides an in-depth understanding of how racism, individual and institutional, has impacted members of subordinated groups in the united states and globally. this course includes examinations of the historical development and implications of individual and institutional racism. however, the course largely focuses on contemporary matters. students are periodically assigned questions that must be answered in the form of an essay based on the student’s interpretation of assigned readings. student essays provide a context for seminar discussions of lectures and readings in sociological and social science theory. pre-requisites: anso 103, anso 105, afs 105, or permission of the instructor. /uni00a0 degree requirements f9 anso 392 the sociology of violence and peacemaking term: spring credits: 4 this seminar examines violence and peacemaking from a constructionist sociological framework. interpretive, interpersonal, institutional and structural forms of violence are examined by reading personal narratives, testimonials and sociological studies. following the insights of a wide range of thinkers, the seminar also explores the sense in which the violence implicit in knowledge and language may be understood as a core form of violence. shifting focus to the study of nonviolence, the relation between dialogic understanding and peacemaking is then explored in reference to the work of gandhi and martin luther king, jr. the seminar concludes with a case study of the civil rights movement in st. augustine, florida. prerequisites introductory sociology anso 393 black feminist thought term: spring, fall credits: 4 /uni00a0this course explores the micro-level and institutional intersections of race, class, gender, and sexuality from social scientific and humanistic perspectives by placing african american women’s thought at the center of class discourse. it maps the genealogy of african american feminist thought from early american “race women” to contemporary, “third-wave,” hip-hop, and digital black feminists. it will consider various instantiations of black feminist identity and activism and explore black feminist praxis. not open to first-year students. degree requirements f9 africana studies elective gender and sexuality studies elective anso 394 black sociology term: spring credits: 4 this course examines the academic and public contributions of early black sociologists, social scientists and intellectuals whose relevance and importance to academia have historically been excluded from narratives on the development of science in the united states. the works of persons like w. e. b. du bois and the atlanta sociological laboratory, ida b. wells, zora neale hurston, augustus granville dill and other little-known scholars are analyzed. students will gain the conceptual and theoretical tools to properly identify the contributions of blacks to the sciences, analyze individual and structural racism/discrimination and develop skills to critically assess solutions to issues of race and racism in the united states. /uni00a0 degree requirements f9 prerequisites introductory anthropology introductory sociology introduction to africana studies anso 451 research term: fall credits: 1-4 this course allows senior and advanced junior majors to become active participants in ongoing departmental research projects. anso 452 research term: spring credits: 1-4 this course allows senior and advanced junior majors to become active participants in ongoing departmental research projects. anso 460 internship credits: 4 a supervised learning experience involving archaeological and/or material culture studies out of state, abroad, or in the community outside of the college. this may include museums, laboratories, cultural resource management firms, cultural conservation projects, historical landmarks, surveying firms, etc. the student and the faculty advisor will devise the program of field work and submit it for approval to the chair of the archaeology program. anso 470 fellowship in anthropology and sociology term: spring, fall credits: no credits an anthropology or sociology (anso) fellowship is an extended activity outside the conventional classroom that complements and broadens the student’s major of anthropology and sociology within the liberal arts setting. this fellowship oﬀered in our department will help contextualize the students’ engagement in the classroom, foster a sense of professional identity, include team- building or collaborative learning and develop critical reflection skills. under the mentorship of an anso faculty member, these opportunities will typically take place over the course of a semester and may entail bi-weekly meetings. anso 485 advanced research design term: fall credits: 4 in preparation for senior seminar, students in this course will be guided through the following research design processes: • constructing a literature review • developing a theoretical framework • developing a methodological approach and plan of work • constructing a full research proposal • completing and submitting an irb application prerequisites introductory anthropology introductory sociology introduction to social research explorations in social theory anso 486 senior seminar term: spring credits: 4 this capstone course requires students to integrate knowledge and skills that have been acquired throughout their studies as majors in the department. students will engage in an ongoing critical analysis of contemporary contributions to theory and research in anthropology and sociology. students will design and conduct a research project that culminates in a research paper and formal presentation. prerequisites introductory anthropology introductory sociology introduction to social research ethnography at home: engaging in another world explorations in social theory advanced research design anso 495 honors tutorial term: fall credits: 4-8 open to candidates for honors in the department./uni00a0a tutorial consisting of advanced original research. anso 496 honors tutorial term: spring credits: 4-8 open to candidates for honors in the department. a tutorial consisting of advanced original research. art 101 drawing term: spring, fall credits: 4 an introduction to drawing in various media. degree requirements f5 art 102 intro to digital art term: fall credits: 4 introductory studio experience in the use of digital technology in the fine arts. topics include digital imaging, motion graphics, video editing, and computer animation. this course will also trace technologically driven art from pioneering eﬀorts to current trends, and the central role played by computers in the field of electronic art. degree requirements f5 art 105 painting term: spring, fall credits: 4 an introduction to the fundamentals of acrylic painting, including its formal and conceptual properties. class is suitable for all levels of experience including first-time artists. lab fee for materials is required. degree requirements f5 art 107 sculpture term: spring, fall credits: 4 emphasis will be on the development of ideas as they relate to traditional and non-traditional approaches to making art. students will develop skills in modeling, casting, wood working, and alternative media. this course situates students within the contemporary art world and challenges them to articulate thoughts and concepts through the art making process. degree requirements f5 art 110 film and experimental video production term: spring credits: 4 an introduction to the production of film and video. students will explore a variety of film making practices by producing works in narrative and documentary genres as well as experimental videos and art films. using a wide variety of tools, students will gain experience in cinematography, non- linear video editing, and sound production while also expanding their understanding of the histories, practices and theories of filmmaking. degree requirements f5 art 115 creative publishing: zines, comics, manifestos and artist's books term: spring credits: 4 students in this course will conceptualize, design, print, publish and distribute original zines of their own creation./uni00a0 students will utilize a variety of analog and digital methods of design, drawing, collage, scanning, photocopying, printing, marketing and distribution./uni00a0 assignments focus on the creative pipeline for diy publishing./uni00a0 students will expand their understanding of the histories, practices and theories of creative publishing as a creative practice. degree requirements f5 art 116 digital animation credits: 4 an introduction to the techniques and expressive possibilities of experimental animation. digital and analog processes will be explored, such as stop-motion, collage, cut paper, erasure, rotoscoping, keyframing, claymation and motion graphics. students will create original animations through weekly exercises and longer-term projects that examine production and content. projects, discussions and critiques will be informed by weekly screenings, readings and tutorials of contemporary and historical animated art works. /uni00a0 degree requirements f5 art 120 chemistry and art term: spring credits: 4 this is an interdisciplinary course investigating science and art through the analysis of related themes and experiences. the course will not privilege one method of inquiry over another, nor does it seek to compare or contrast them. rather, it is the explicit goal to see artistic and scientific inquiry as related expressions of the human mind. the instructors presuppose no more than a general awareness of art history or applied science but we expect a commitment to investigate aspects of both disciplines with equal enthusiasm. sophomore and first year students are given preference for at least half the enrollment./uni00a0 junior and senior students are not eligible for pre-registration, but/uni00a0may be added/uni00a0via the waitlist process, with permission from the instructors. degree requirements f5 f7 art 151 survey of western art term: spring, fall credits: 4 a survey of western art from prehistory to the twentieth century. in the first half of the semester emphasis is placed on examining art within the producing cultures of ancient egypt, the near east, classical greece and rome, the byzantine world, and medieval europe. the second half of the semester emphasizes the development and expansion of renaissance ideals of art, and the reassessment of these ideals in the nineteenth and twentieth centuries. students will be exposed to the basic methods of art historical analysis as well as the major techniques, artists, movements and objects in the history of western art. (course oﬀered every semester.) degree requirements f3 f5 art 152 survey of contemporary art term: spring, fall credits: 4 a comprehensive introduction to european and american art and art criticism since 1940. movements and sensibilities to be studied include abstract expressionism, pop, minimal, feminist, and neoexpressionism. themes examined will include modernism and postmodernism, mass culture, art and politics, gender, race, and other markers of identity. artists include pollock, warhol, spero, chicago, and ringgold. degree requirements f3 f5 art 166 topics in studio art term: spring, fall credits: 4 topics will vary from year to year with the instructor. course may be repeated as long as topics are diﬀerent. art 202 intermediate digital art credits: 4 studio experience in the use of digital technology in the fine arts. prerequisites intro to digital art art 205 intermediate painting term: spring credits: 4 continued exploration of processes using acrylic paint with increased emphasis on content ideation and personal project development. prerequisites painting art 207 intermediate sculpture term: spring, fall credits: 4 emphasis will be on the development of ideas as they relate to traditional and non-traditional approaches to making art. students will develop skills in modeling, casting, wood working, and alternative media. this course situates students within the contemporary art world and challenges them to articulate thoughts and concepts through the art making process. students are expected /uni00a0to spend twelve hours per week on research and production. students must have permission from the instructor before registration. studio courses require 138 hours of work per term for four credits. a studio fee may be required for studio courses to cover the expense of materials and equipment. oﬀered in alternate years recommended pre-requisite: art 151 prerequisites sculpture art 209 art and architecture of the ancient near east and egypt term: spring, fall credits: 4 this course explores the art and architecture of the ancient near east and egypt. the chronological survey will examine the materials, techniques, categories of artifacts, and conventions (of both form and subject matter) of these cultures with a significant emphasis on the social, political, and religious contexts in which they were created. the rediscovery and study of these cultures in the 19th and 20th centuries, the treatment of the people of these cultures as others by the west, and ethical issues related to the appropriation of this material by westerners will be discussed as a window into our understanding of the societies. students will approach ancient cultures through the eyes of art historians, archaeologists, and anthropologists. (course oﬀered in alternate years.) prerequisite: survey of western art recommended, but not required. degree requirements f5 f9 ancient studies elective archaeology elective art 212 introduction to performance art: making everyday actions extraordinary credits: 4 in 1973, mierle ukeles was invited to exhibit her art at the wadsworth athenium museum. her exhibition consisted of cleaning and maintaining the building, including a grueling 8 hours spent washing its front steps. in 1990, rirkrit tiravanija cooked and served curry in a commercial gallery in new york. the meal was free for anyone who wanted it. in 2010, marina abramović sat silently in the lobby of the museum of modern art for 736 hours. visitors waited in line for hours, some camping out for days, to sit in a chair across from her and look into her eyes. how can simple actions like cleaning a staircase, cooking and serving food, or sitting across from a stranger be considered art? in this class we'll explore the ways in which carefully considered interactions with other people, objects, and spaces can become extraordinary experiences. we'll focus on everyday activities and examine how actions like recontextualizing, scripting, and repeating these activities can shift our understanding and impact an audience. we'll read about and recreate significant performances from the 1960's - today, and work individually and collaboratively to produce original works of performance art. no prior performance experience is necessary./uni00a0 art 216 3d animation and virtual realities term: spring credits: 4 this course will oﬀer students the opportunity to build virtual realities. utilizing software such as autodesk maya, students will 3d model objects, architecture, characters and environments to create original animations of their own design./uni00a0 students will expand their understanding of the histories, theories and practices of 3d animation. oﬀered in alternate years. recommended pre-requisite: art 151 degree requirements f5 art 218 greek art and architecture term: spring, fall credits: 4 this course evaluates the visual culture and archaeological remains of the greek lands from the “bronze age” to the end of the hellenistic period. in this course, we not only examine the visual characteristics of the architecture, painting, and sculpture of ancient greece, but also interpret those characteristics within their historical and cultural context. we study the major religious, funerary, and social rituals of the ancient greeks and how the archaeological remains inform us of those activities. (course oﬀered in alternate years.) prerequisites: survey of western art recommended, but not required. /uni00a0 degree requirements f5 ancient studies elective archaeology elective art 219 roman art and architecture term: spring, fall credits: 4 this course is a chronological introduction to the art, architecture, and archaeology of the ancient roman world from the republic to the time of constantine. we will investigate what the romans themselves considered “art” the be and how to historically contextualize the variety of roman visual culture, including not only sculpture and architecture, but also fresco painting, coins, gemstones, and urban infrastructure and design. other topics to be considered include the propagandistic and ideological use of visual culture by roman emperors, issues of gender and class in private patronage, domestic architecture, funerary art, and the art of the roman provinces. (course oﬀered in alternate years.) prerequisites: survey of western art recommended, but not required. /uni00a0 degree requirements f5 ancient studies elective archaeology elective art 220 classical archaeology term: spring, fall credits: 4 this course will address the material remains of the ancient mediterranean, including mesopotamia, egypt, the aegean, greece, etruria, and rome. by examining the history of the rediscovery of the classical world we will come to understand “how do we know what we know about antiquity?” through the personalities and methodologies of more than two centuries of archaeological practice. we will also study ethical and legal questions related to classical archaeology and the broader question of “who owns the past?” by looking into case studies of looting, theft, and museological issues./uni00a0(course oﬀered in alternate years) prerequisite: survey of western art recommended, but not required. degree requirements f3 f5 ancient studies elective archaeology elective art 221 art and spirituality in the middle ages term: fall credits: 4 this course will examine the visual arts in western europe and the byzantine east during the period normally known as the middle ages. chronologically this stretches roughly from the reign of constantine in the 4th century to the outbreak of the black death in europe in 1348 (or stylistically from the end of the classical period to the dawn of the renaissance). during this era, europe saw strikingly new and original artistic forms, both in a secular context and in art related to the increasingly influential christian church. emphasis of the course will be placed on the nature of art and spirituality during these turbulent times. other topics covered will include issues of aesthetics, globalization, iconography, artistic style, the making and function of art objects, and women in the medieval world. this course will be require/uni00a0regular written assignments, a series of papers, and at least one substantial rewrite./uni00a0(course oﬀered in alternate years) prerequisites: history of western art recommended, but not required. /uni00a0 /uni00a0 degree requirements f2i f5 medieval through baroque elective art 223 italian renaissance art term: spring, fall credits: 4 this course examines italian art from about 1300-1580, with emphasis on the historical and social context. such themes as patronage, functions, theory, materials and techniques, style, gender and sexuality, and the profession of the artist will be discussed. artists treated include giotto, brunelleschi, masaccio, donatello, botticelli, leonardo, bramante, raphael, michelangelo, titian, and palladio. (course oﬀered every third semester.) prerequisites: history of western art recommended, but not required. degree requirements f5 medieval through baroque elective art 226 northern renaissance art term: spring credits: 4 an examination of painting, sculpture, and the graphic arts in the netherlands, germany, and france, from about 1400 to 1600, with emphasis on the historical and social context. such themes as the status of the artist, art and mysticism, iconography, and the relationship of northern european and italian art and culture will be discussed. artists include jan van eyck, rogier van der weyden, hieronymus bosch, albrecht dürer, and pieter bruegel. (course oﬀered in alternate years.) prerequisites: history of western art recommended, but not required. degree requirements f5 medieval through baroque elective art 228 baroque painting from caravaggio to rembrandt term: spring, fall credits: 4 the course investigates european art ca. 1580-1750. students will be introduced to the major artists, subjects, and stylistic developments during this time period. additional emphasis will be placed on issues such as patronage, collecting, technique, women artists, and recent discoveries. artists covered include caravaggio, bernini, gentileschi, rembrandt, vermeer, velasquez, and rubens. (course oﬀered in alternate years.) /uni00a0 prerequisites: history of western art recommended, but not required. degree requirements f5 medieval through baroque elective art 234 american art term: spring, fall credits: 4 a thematic examination of art produced in the united states from the colonial period to wwii with special emphasis on the place of art and artists within a democracy. themes include the relationship between political and visual representation, landscape as metaphor, race and ethnicity in art, and the tension between private and public patronage. artists include thomas jeﬀerson, stuart davis, and frank lloyd wright. (course oﬀered occasionally.) prerequisites: survey of western art recommended, but not required. degree requirements f5 modern art elective art 241 modern art i term: spring, fall credits: 4 a survey of the major european art movements from about 1760 to 1880. special emphasis is given to the interplay between politics and the emergence of new styles and subject matter in painting. artists covered include david, goya, constable, delacroix, friedrich, courbet, manet, and monet. (course oﬀered occasionally.) prerequisites: survey of western art recommended, but not required. degree requirements f5 modern art elective f2i art 242 modern art ii term: spring, fall credits: 4 a survey of european art from 1880 to 1960. themes examined include primitivism, the tension between modern art and mass culture, the attempt to combine radical politics with formal innovation, and the development of non-objective styles of painting. movements discussed include symbolism, fauvism, cubism, futurism, dada, surrealism, and abstract expressionism. (course oﬀered every third semester; next scheduled for fall/uni00a02022.) prerequisites: survey of western art recommended, but not required. degree requirements f2i f5 modern art elective art 245 guernica and antiwar art term: spring, fall credits: 4 this course investigates how modern artists have opposed war over the past two centuries. it begins with a focus on pablo picasso’s monumental painting, guernica, considers the historical precedents from which he drew inspiration, acknowledges the prevalence of war reporting and propaganda in shaping public opinion of combat, and then traces the legacy of his example. much of the art under consideration was produced in the united states, so the course will provide one perspective on the so-called american century. in addition to developing the skills of close looking, students will read both primary and secondary sources, as well as critical theory. all of this will help us to consider the eﬃcacy of such art, especially that produced in a democracy. (course oﬀered in alternate years: scheduled for spring 2023.) prerequisites: history of western art recommended, but not required. degree requirements f3 f5 modern art elective art 260 curation in context: the art of the exhibition in memphis and beyond term: spring credits: 4 this course is a one semester class designed to teach students the basics of exhibiting art as well as examining theoretical issues including but not limited to: the mission of a gallery, understanding a gallery’s audience, and the role of exhibition spaces in a community. working with the gallery director students may be involved in: publicizing, preparing and designing of exhibits, proper handling of works of art, hanging, lighting, labels, receptions, security, etc. for all exhibits during the spring semester year. the class is only open to juniors and seniors or with permission of the instructor. degree requirements f11 modern art elective prerequisites survey of western art art 265 topics in art history term: spring, fall credits: 4 topics will vary from year to year with the instructor./uni00a0course may be repeated as long as topics are diﬀerent. prerequisites survey of western art art 266 intermediate topics in studio art term: spring, fall credits: 4 a studio, open to both majors and non-majors, on varying subjects. may be repeated for credit. topics courses include landscape painting and figure painting. art 302 advanced digital art credits: 4 studio experience in the use of digital technology in the fine arts./uni00a0 prerequisites intermediate digital art art 305 advanced painting term: spring, fall credits: 4 students taking advanced studio courses will further explore issues concerning media and methods relevant to individually designated concepts and investigations. students are expected to spend twelve hours per week on research and production. directed inquiries can be accommodated through any of the advanced studio oﬀerings. studio courses require 138 hours of work per term for four credits. a studio fee is required for every studio course to cover the expense of materials and equipment. a 300-level class may be repeated at the 400-level course designation, however, this is reserved for rare instances in which a student is already performing at a graduate school level. permission of instructor is required. prerequisites intermediate painting art 307 advanced sculpture term: spring, fall credits: 4 students taking advanced studio courses will further explore issues concerning media and methods relevant to individually designated concepts and investigations. students are expected to spend twelve hours per week on research and production. directed inquiries can be accommodated through any of the advanced studio oﬀerings. studio courses require 138 hours of work per term for four credits. a studio fee is required for every studio course to cover the expense of materials and equipment. a 300-level class may be repeated at the 400-level course designation, however, this is reserved for rare instances in which a student is already performing at a graduate school level. permission of instructor is required. prerequisites intermediate sculpture art 330 feminist art term: spring, fall credits: 4 this course investigates the contributions of feminism to art practices since the 1960s. with primary and secondary documents as our evidence and guide, we will assess the accomplishments and limitations of overtly feminist art. throughout the semester we will ask why artists embraced the politics of feminism, how this shaped their own practices and perceptions of modernism, and how this now helps us to see the great complexity of modern and contemporary art./uni00a0(course oﬀered in alternate years: next scheduled for spring 2024) prerequisites: survey of contermporary art recommended, but not required. degree requirements f3 f5 modern art elective gender and sexuality studies elective art 353 art and life in pompeii term: spring credits: 4 this course will focus on pompeii and herculaneum, also addressing material from sites like stabiae, boscoreale, boscotrecase, and oplontis. we will examine these cities as case studies of archaeology, roman urbanism, and a particular period of roman art. we will also consider the impact of the rediscovery of these lost cities on the 19th century world. previous completion of art 151 or art 219 is strongly recommended but not required. (course oﬀered every third year.) degree requirements f5 ancient studies elective urban studies elective archaeology elective art 356 michelangelo term: spring credits: 4 an examination of the life and art of michelangelo buonarroti (1475-1564). special attention will be paid to stylistic, interpretive, and methodological issues, as well as the many controversies that have surrounded his life and art from the renaissance to the present. works studied will include painting, sculpture, architecture, drawings, and poetry. class will combine both lecture and seminar formats. either art history 151 or art history 223 is strongly recommended but not required. (course oﬀered occasionally.) degree requirements f5 medieval through baroque elective art 365 advanced topics in art history term: spring, fall credits: 4 a seminar, open to both majors and non-majors, on varying subjects. may be repeated for credit so long as topics are diﬀerent. art 366 advanced topics in studio art term: spring, fall credits: 4 a studio, open to both majors and non-majors, on varying subjects. may be repeated for credit as long as topics are diﬀerent. topics courses include landscape painting and figure painting. students taking advanced studio courses will further explore issues concerning media and methods relevant to individually designated concepts and investigations. students are expected to spend twelve hours per week on research and production. directed inquiries can be accommodated through any of the advanced studio oﬀerings. studio courses require 138 hours of work per term for four credits. a studio fee is required for every studio course to cover the expense of materials and equipment. a 300-level class may be repeated at the 400-level course designation, however, this is reserved for rare instances in which a student is already performing at a graduate school level. permission of instructor is required. art 375 archaeological field work in greece term: maymester credits: 4 this program is a supervised training course in the methods of classical archaeology at a controlled excavation and in the relationship between newly discovered artifacts and those in museums. students will live in greece and participate as crewmembers in the excavation, registration, restoration, and publication of archaeological objects. they will also study famous art objects and sites in an academic and museum/uni00a0setting, tracing the life history of such an object from discovery to display and publication. focusing on crete in the bronze age, ca. 3000-1100 bce, students will have the opportunity to examine the art of the minoans at first hand. degree requirements f5 f11 archaeology elective ancient studies elective art 386 experiments in media and methods term: spring credits: 4 experimental media and methods is a required course in the sequence for the rhodes college art major & minor. the purpose of this course is to introduce studio artists to the methods required for the development of individually designed research and creative projects, ultimately building toward the personal body of work and portfolio. this work will be undertaken with the approval and guidance of the art faculty as well as a group of peers. the required production component of the course is 10 hours minimum investment out of class per week. personal projects will be exploratory, research driven and content centered and should result in the beginning of a body of work to be carried through into the senior year. this course is designed to focus specifically on content ideation and material/mode research. student-artists will cultivate actively chosen topics and subjects beginning the semester with wide, open ended prompts and moving into non-assignment driven work later in the semester. process research is expected and flexibility within technical modes is mandatory. /uni00a0 art 399 tutorial for honors candidates term: spring credits: 1 students interested in reading for honors in the department of art and art history are required to enroll in a preparatory tutorial in the spring semester of their junior year. successful completion of the tutorial does not necessarily guarantee acceptance into the honors program. art 460 art/archtectural internship term: spring, fall credits: 1-4 students are placed with local artists and/or regional galleries, design firms or architectural firms. may be repeated for a total of six credits. students may apply a maximum of four credits towards the art major or minor. degree requirements f11 art 461 museum/gallery internship term: spring, fall credits: 1-4 fall or spring. credits: 1-4.an internship with a gallery or museum with a focus on the visual arts, or an arts-related organization. prerequisites: approval of department chair and oﬀer of placement from an approved gallery or museum. normally open only to art majors and minors with junior or senior standing. students may apply a maximum of four credits towards the art major or minor. degree requirements f11 art 485 senior seminar term: fall credits: 4 art history track. advanced seminar involving theory, methodology, and historiography. students will submit a major research paper and conduct an oral presentation. topics vary with instructor. required of all majors in the art history track. prerequisites: art history 151, 152, and at least three 200-level art history courses. prerequisites survey of western art survey of contemporary art art 485 senior seminar term: fall credits: 4 individually designed creative projects or research undertaken with the approval and guidance of the art faculty. students are required to propose a fifteen-week program of research, develop a relevant body of work and artist statement, meet weekly for critiques with the instructor, and maintain a digital portfolio of their work. in addition each student will participate in two formal critiques with art faculty and a peer group at midterm and final. this course is only oﬀered in the fall of senior year. art 486 senior thesis term: spring credits: 4 the continuation of the senior seminar in which students further develop and refine creative projects with the approval and guidance of the art faculty. this course culminates in a thesis gallery exhibition.this course is only oﬀered in the spring of senior year. art 495 honors tutorial term: fall credits: 4 honors research/independent project for students who are seeking honors during their senior year of study. art 496 honors tutorial term: spring credits: 4 honors research/independent project. for students seeking honors during their senior year of study. biol 104 topics in biology term: spring, fall credits: 4 topics in biology courses provide an in-depth understanding of a topic in the biological sciences. as in other introductory biology courses, each topics course details fundamental principles and concepts in the discipline but in the context of a specific topic. topics in biology may be taken as elective credit by students majoring in biology provided they have not already taken an upper level biology course of similar content; however, topics in biology will not satisfy a course requirement for the major in biology. biol 105 topics in biology with laboratory term: spring, fall credits: 4 similar to biol 104 but includes a laboratory component. degree requirements f7 biol 110 biology for global citizens term: spring, fall, summer credits: 4 designed for students who are not majoring in/uni00a0biology,/uni00a0biol/uni00a0110/uni00a0provides students with the tools to be scientifically literate global citizens. the course examines how science diﬀers from other disciplines, how scientists acquire knowledge, and how science progresses. the course focuses on fundamental/uni00a0biological concepts and explores the relationship between/uni00a0biology and students’ day-to-day world. topics include characteristics of life, evolution, ecology, conservation/uni00a0biology, climate change, human disease, health, agriculture, and biotechnology. this course will help students to understand complex issues in/uni00a0biology and to develop critical thinking and analytical tools to empower them to make informed decisions and to become responsible, scientifically literate, global citizens. degree requirements f7 biol 115 human anatomy and physiology i with lab term: summer credits: 3, 1 an introduction to human anatomy and physiology designed for and required by some nursing, physical therapy, and physician assistant programs. often accepted to fulfill anatomy and/or physiology requirements at pharmacy programs. this course is not designed or recommended for those seeking acceptance at medical, dental, or veterinary medical schools. biology 115, 115l will not satisfy a course requirement for the major in biology biol 116 human anatomy and physiology ii with lab term: spring credits: 3, 1 a continuation following human anatomy and physiology i. same specifics as biology 115, 115l. prerequisites human anatomy and physiology i with lab biol 120 introduction to environmental sciences term: fall credits: 4 this course focuses on a scientific understanding of the environment as well as on people’s impact upon the natural world. emphasis is on critical evaluation of environmental issues based on scientific principles. the fundamental ecological principles are the foundations for the students’ learning and understanding of, among others, human population dynamics, natural resources, energy sources and their use, and sustainable human systems. through field-based laboratories, the students learn how to evaluate and quantify the ecosystem services provided by an urban park like overton park. during the semester students collect and analyze data to estimate selected ecosystem services such as: climate regulation or carbon dioxide removal, and water purification. biology 120 will not satisfy a course requirement for the major in biology. sophomore/uni00a0and first-year students only./uni00a0 junior and senior students may be allowed to enroll with permission from the instructor./uni00a0 degree requirements f7 biol 130 biology i term: fall credits: 3 an examination of the structure and functions of life at the cellular level. topics include the organization of prokaryotic and eukaryotic cells, the role of proteins in cell structure and metabolism, membrane structure and function, bioenergetics, interactions between a cell and its environment, and the mechanisms of heredity. biology 130 and 131l are linked co-requisites. both must be completed successfully for f7 credit. degree requirements f7 biol 131 biology i lab term: fall credits: 1 an introduction to investigative techniques in biology and skills required for the analysis and presentation of scientific findings, with emphasis on topics at the cellular level./uni00a0 biology 130 and 131l are linked co-requisites. both must be completed successfully for f7 credit. degree requirements f7 biol 140 biology ii term: spring credits: 4 a study of biological principles at the level of organisms and above. this course covers the mechanisms of evolution; plant and animal development, anatomy, and physiology; behavior and ecology. biology 140 and 141l are linked co-requisites. prerequisites biology i biology i lab biol 141 biology ii lab term: spring credits: 1 continued development of investigative techniques in biology and the skills required for the analysis and presentation of scientific findings, with emphasis on topics at the level of organisms and above./uni00a0 biology 140 and 141l are linked co-requisites. degree requirements f7 prerequisites biology i biology i lab biol 200 evolution with lab term: spring, fall credits: 4, 1 evolution is the grand unifying idea of biology. this study of the evolutionary process will include discussion of the genetic mechanisms of variation, natural selection, change in populations, speciation, coevolution, hominid evolution and biogeography, as well as applications of evolutionary biology to real-world problems. the history of evolutionary ideas from before darwin to the present will also be covered. laboratories will involve original research design, data analysis, discussion of a many types of literature and presentation of ideas in a variety of formats. prerequisites biology i biology i lab biology ii biology ii lab biol 201 mycology with lab term: spring credits: 4, 1 the study of life’s “fifth kingdom”: the fungi. even though they share an equal evolutionary standing with plants and animals, to most people fungi are amongst the most mysterious and least understood of nature’s inhabitants. just what is a fungus anyway? where do fungi live, and what are they doing out there? this course will provide answers to questions like these, as well as provide examples of the practical uses of fungi in industry and research and of the roles that some of them play as agents of disease. laboratory work includes methods for isolating and identifying fungi from nature, methods of genetic analysis, and methods for producing commercial products like tempeh and beer./uni00a0/uni00a0(course normally oﬀered in alternate years; anticipated for 2017-2018.) prerequisites biology i biology i lab biology ii biology ii lab biol 202 vertebrate life term: spring credits: 4 a study of the diversity of vertebrates including past and present radiations. this course focuses on the various and diverse adaptations in behavior, ecology, morphology and physiology that allow vertebrates to successfully inhabit water, air and land. (course normally oﬀered every two to three years.) prerequisites biology ii biology ii lab biol 204 animal development with lab term: spring credits: 4, 1 how does a single fertilized egg cell give rise to a multicellular animal? developmental biology is the discipline that tries to answer this question. in this class, we will search for that answer both in classical experiments and the most cutting edge modern research. understanding embryonic development is a stepping stone towards understanding the evolution of animal diversity, adaptation of forms and functions, the onset of birth defects and cancer, and even the processes that make us each unique. in lab we will examine these processes in sea urchins, planaria and other animal models. /uni00a0 prerequisites biology i biology i lab biology ii biology ii lab biol 207 animal behavior with lab term: fall credits: 4, 1 an evolutionary and ecological approach to questions of why and how animals behave as they do. emphasis is on how traits help individuals maximize the survival of genes within them. laboratories will involve quantitative data collection in both the laboratory and field. biology 200 recommended. math 111 or equivalent suggested. degree requirements f11 prerequisites biology i biology i lab biology ii biology ii lab biol 209 embryology term: spring credits: 4 a study of the reproductive processes leading to fertilization of an egg, and the morphological changes that occur in animal embryonic development from fertilization to birth. this anatomically- based course will focus on the development of the major organ systems and body plan of vertebrates, including comparisons of developmental patterns among vertebrates and understanding what happens when the patterns are disrupted to produce birth defects. class meetings will be predominantly lecture with some laboratory work. (course normally oﬀered every two to three years.) prerequisites biology i biology i lab biology ii biology ii lab biol 212 environmental issues in southern africa term: spring credits: 4 an interdisciplinary examination of the environmental issues of a region of the world famous for its captivating scenery, immense richness and dire scarcity of natural resources, and cultural diversity of its people. special attention will be devoted to the role of parks and community-based conservation projects in achieving a balance between people's/uni00a0needs and wildlife conservation. by itself, this course satisfies an upper-level requirement for the biology major; when combined with biology 214, the two courses together satisfy a requirement for one upper-level course with laboratory. (course oﬀered pending student demand; anticipated in 2018-2019.) pre-requisites: biology 130/131, biology 140/141, or biology 120 and chemistry 120/125 biol 214 environmental field study in namibia term: summer credits: 4 an in-country exploration of the major environmental issues of namibia, one of the world's most arid and most beautiful countries. students will spend three weeks in the region, visiting diﬀerent ecosystems, such as the namib desert, dry thornveld savannas, and the kalahari sands. they will meet with indigenous people, ngos, and governmental oﬃcers involved in local environmental issues. elephant and cheetah tracking can be part of the educational experience during this field study trip. this course emphasizes critical thinking and interdisciplinary learning and is meant to challenge students' world-view to enable them to increase their awareness and knowledge of our global society. (course oﬀered pending student demand; anticipated in 2018-2019.) prerequisites: biology 130/131 and biology 140/141 or biology 120 and chemistry 120/125 /uni00a0 degree requirements f11 biol 260 the science of climate change term: spring credits: 4 the earth’s climate is a complex system with many components, including the atmosphere, ocean, land, and the creatures that inhabit these spaces. this course will address the science behind climate change, focusing on 1) the mechanisms that govern climate; and 2) how climate interfaces with the biological world. students will engage with both concepts and real climate data to explore these two areas. specific biological topics will include: species distribution, conservation biology, agriculture, disease, and ocean acidification. this upper-level course, when paired with biol 214, counts as an upper-level with laboratory elective. prerequisites: biology 130/131 and 140/141, or biology/uni00a0120 and chemistry 120/125 /uni00a0 biol 280 microbial methods in ecology credits: 4 this course is oﬀered at the semester in environmental science (ses) program at the marine biological laboratory in woods hole, massachusetts. students accepted into the ses program will take this course. the microbiology techniques commonly used to study microbes aﬀecting human health are often ineﬀective for the study of microbes in natural ecosystems. lectures in this course will present the scientific rationale behind a number of methods used by microbial ecologists. in the laboratory, students will work with the latest techniques to measure microbial biomass, activity, extracellular enzymes, biogeochemistry and species diversity./uni00a0 these methods include epifluorescence microscopy, radioisotopic tracers for bacterial production, fluorescent substrates, hydrogen sulfide and methane production, and molecular probes for classes of bacteria. students may use these techniques in concurrent independent research projects./uni00a0 this course is an elective oﬀered to students who enroll in the semester in environmental science (ses) program at the marine biological laboratory in woods hole, massachusetts. students who participate in the ses program may count envs 260 and envs 270 as two upper- level courses with labs towards the biology major (subject to the limit that no more than two courses outside of the rhodes biology program may be applied to the major), but biol 280 will count only as elective credits in biology (this course/uni00a0may not count as one of the six upper-level biology courses required for the major). prerequisites biology i biology i lab biology ii biology ii lab biol 301 microbiology with lab term: spring, fall credits: 4, 1 the study of microorganisms from the perspectives of molecular biology, metabolism, physiology, genetics, evolution and ecology. principal emphasis will be placed on prokaryotic microorganisms (the bacteria and archaea) and the importance of their metabolic strategies and physiology in defining the roles that they play in nature including, though not limited to, the ability of pathogenic microorganisms to survive in a host and cause disease. the laboratory emphasizes the development of skills in isolation and characterization of bacteria. prerequisites biology i biology i lab biology ii biology ii lab biol 302 parasitology term: spring credits: 4 parasites are organisms that are dependent on another species for their reproductive success. many spend most or all of their lives in close association with one or more host organisms. this course will examine the morphology, development, molecular and cellular biology, life cycles, ecology, evolutionary adaptations, and host interactions of a variety of vertebrate and invertebrate parasites. parasites that interact with humans as a primary or secondary host will feature prominently but all parasitic taxa will be represented. /uni00a0 prerequisites biology i biology i lab biology ii biology ii lab biol 303 genetics term: fall credits: 4 the study of the transmission of genetic factors in humans and eukaryotic model systems. principal emphasis will be placed on the analysis of heredity, genes as functional units, and phenotypes resulting from regulated gene expression. students who already have credit for biology 304/304l may not earn credit for biology 303./uni00a0(course normally oﬀered every two to three years.) prerequisites biology i biology i lab biology ii biology ii lab biol 304 genetics with lab term: spring credits: 4, 1 the study of the transmission of genetic factors in humans and eukaryotic model systems. principal emphasis will be placed on the analysis of heredity, genes as functional units, and phenotypes resulting from regulated gene expression. laboratory exercises include experimental genetic screens, genomic approaches and their analysis. students who already have credit for biology 303 may not earn credit for biology 304/304l. prerequisites biology i biology i lab biology ii biology ii lab biol 305 population genomics with lab credits: 4, 1 genetic diversity is what enables a population to respond to change. in a practical sense, human health, control of infectious disease, conservation and the maintenance of our world food supply are all impacted by genomic variation. over the past two decades, as climate change and global pandemics rise to challenge our genetic strength, technology has provided tools to explore our genomes in ways previously unimagined. in population genomics we will bridge modern tools with classical theory to explore our dna not just as a sequence of bases, but as an everchanging 3- dimensional puzzle to find solutions for the medical and environmental challenges we face. in the lab section we will learn the tools of genetical analysis and conduct experiments based on whole- genome approaches. /uni00a0 prerequisites biology i biology i lab biology ii biology ii lab biol 307 cell biology term: fall credits: 4 an advanced treatment of the structure and function of eukaryotic cells. major emphasis will be placed upon the roles played by biological membranes in cell nutrition and energy transduction; on processes of signal transduction; on the roles of the cytoskeleton in cell structure, motility, and reproduction; on mechanisms that regulate the cell cycle and cell death; and on mechanisms that regulate intracellular traﬃcking. optional laboratory credit is available by taking bmb 310 (see biochemistry and molecular biology program under interdisciplinary study). prerequisites biology i biology i lab biol 311 invertebrate biology with lab credits: 4, 1 a course that examines the diversity of invertebrates, which are the vast majority of all animals on the planet, and how they can be useful proxies for understanding ecosystem processes. topics will include the morphology, physiology, reproduction and ecology of major invertebrate groups. the course will also cover current issues in invertebrate conservation. laboratories will emphasize original experimental approaches, data analysis, discussion of literature and field work to observe and collect invertebrates. prerequisites biology i biology i lab biology ii biology ii lab biol 315 ecology with lab term: fall credits: 4, 1 a broad study of concepts in the science of ecology. this course stresses the biotic and abiotic interactions that determine the distribution and abundance of organisms. the laboratory component consists of both on-campus laboratory work and intensive field experiences including at least one overnight outing. students with organismal and environmental interests desiring a field component are encouraged to participate. occasional saturday and weekend field trips are required. prerequisites: biology 130/131, biology 140/141 or biology 120 and chemistry 120/125 biol 316 freshwater ecology with lab credits: 4, 1 aquatic ecosystems range broadly in scale: from small stormwater ponds to the great lakes, and from headwater streams to the mississippi river. this course focuses on diﬀerent aspects of each of those environments, with particular attention paid to the biology of freshwater systems, including biodiversity, biogeochemistry, and food webs. we will cover carbon and nutrient cycling in streams and lakes, relationships between watersheds and characteristics of inland waters, and the role of environmental change in shaping physical, chemical, and biological traits of freshwater ecosystems. additionally, we will cover ecological interactions of organisms living in aquatic environments and the role that humans have played in influencing how our aquatic ecosystems behave. laboratories will involve skill building in field, lab, and computer settings, including study design and implementation, field sampling, organism identification, data analysis, and mathematical and ecosystem modeling. the course will also build skills in communication through presentations and class discussions, as well as a continued focus on reading and interpreting peer-reviewed literature. /uni00a0 prerequisites biology i biology i lab biology ii biology ii lab biol 318 entomology with lab term: spring credits: 4, 1 this course will include a survey of insect orders and will introduce students to their structure, diversity, evolution, and ecology. insects constitute a remarkably diverse and successful lineage of animals that has persisted on earth for hundreds of millions of years. our evolution and survival are truly interwoven with theirs since they directly aﬀect our health, food security, and economy. their ecologies are fascinating, they provide us with absolutely essential ecosystem services, and they make incredibly useful models for understanding various biological processes. labs will focus on insect collection and identification, with the end-goal of building an insect collection by the end of the course. as such, students will spend considerable time in the field observing and collecting insects. occasional weekend field trips are required. prerequisites biology i biology i lab biology ii biology ii lab biol 320 conservation biology with lab term: spring credits: 4, 1 an interdisciplinary examination of the science of conservation of biological diversity at gene, population, species, and ecosystem levels./uni00a0learning the theories and practice of conservation biology and critically evaluating strategies adopted to prevent loss of biodiversity are the main objectives of this course./uni00a0 laboratories and field work are designed to make the students familiar with research methods and tools used by conservation biologists. prerequisites: biology 130/131, biology 140/141 or biology 120 and chemistry 120/125 biol 322 plant diversity & evolution with lab term: spring credits: 4, 1 plants have evolved a stunning diversity of forms and reproductive strategies, occupy some incredibly challenging ecological niches, and form the basis of food chains and human economic systems. this course surveys plant types emphasizing morphology, reproduction, ecology, geography, and the evolution of major groups. this includes examining water relations, photosynthesis, respiration, and plant-soil and plant-animal interactions that determine the relationships between plants and their physical and biological environments. this course will also explore the history of plant use in society, including the evolving relationships between humans and plants as food, medicine, fuel, fibers, and dyes. laboratories will involve original research design, data analysis, discussion of literature, presentation of ideas in a variety of formats, and field-oriented components stressing plant identification and ecology. prerequisites biology i biology i lab biology ii biology ii lab biol 325 molecular biology with lab term: spring, fall credits: 4, 1 a study of the structure and function of genes at the molecular level. topics include the synthesis of nucleic acids and proteins and the mechanisms of gene expression and control in prokaryotes and eukaryotes. an emphasis will be placed on the design, analysis, and interpretation of classic and contemporary experiments. the laboratory component will teach the student how to conduct and interpret experiments in molecular biology such as isolation of dna, gel electrophoresis, recombinant dna cloning, and dna sequencing within the context of specific projects. prerequisites biology i biology i lab biol 330 virology/immunology term: fall credits: 4 a course examining the fundamental facts and concepts of the fields of both virology and immunology. the virology component, approximately one quarter of the course, introduces the key features of viral structure, function, pathogenesis and epidemiology in the context of example viruses that cause significant human disease. the immunology component of this course examines the components of the vertebrate immune system and how they interact to defend the organism against pathogens, how a dysfunctional immune system can cause disease, and how knowledge of the immune system can be applied in areas such as transplant medicine and the immunotherapy of cancer./uni00a0 prerequisites biology i biology i lab biology ii biology ii lab biol 340 animal physiology with lab term: spring credits: 4, 1 a study of the various systems of animal physiology (e.g., muscular, nervous, endocrine, cardiac, digestive, respiratory, renal). these themes will be covered in an integrative manner that includes analysis at molecular, cellular, systems, and organismal levels. an emphasis will be placed on the maintenance of homeostasis. furthermore, a comparative approach will be taken to emphasize not only how the human body functions, but also how various animals have evolved similar physiological endpoints that can be compared in their structure and functional eﬃcacy to the human body. such an approach will allow an understanding of how physiology functions, what are its constraints and specializations, what aspects of physiology are integral to sustaining life, etc. laboratory investigations will include studies of vertebrate muscle physiology and biochemistry and regulation of vertebrate cardiac activity, blood pressure and respiration. laboratory experiments will involve the careful and humane use of live vertebrates as research models. laboratories are scheduled for 4 to 5 hours each week. prerequisites biology i biology i lab biology ii biology ii lab biol 345 ornithology with lab term: spring credits: 4, 1 a field-based course examining how the study of birds has informed our understanding of the natural world. topics include the ecology, conservation, behavior, biogeography, and evolution of birds. labs provide hands-on experience with avian research methods, focusing especially on survey techniques and identification of local species. a strong emphasis is placed on experiencing local avifauna in their natural habitats through field trips, and students will spend considerable time in the field observing the natural history of birds. occasional saturday and weekend field trips are required. (course normally oﬀered every two to three years.) prerequisites: biology 130/131, biology 140/141 or biology 120 and chemistry 120/125 biol 348 wildlife biology term: fall credits: 4, 1 this discussion-based course emphasizes the synthesis and integration of ecological principles to address complex issues in wildlife conservation and management. ecological topics include estimating population size, habitat management, hunting, population viability analysis, wildlife interactions, human/wildlife conflict, and endangered species management. labs include substantial time in the field learning wildlife techniques coupled with computational approaches to synthesize data. /uni00a0 pre-requisites: biol 130/131 and biol 140/141, or biol 120 and chem 120 /uni00a0 biol 350 comparative vertebrate morphology with lab term: fall credits: 4, 1 a comparative approach to the study of vertebrate anatomy, emphasizing evolution, development, and functional significance. this course focuses on understanding human anatomy through the examination of morphological patterns shared by vertebrates. laboratories will involve dissection of representative vertebrates, with a focus on mammals. two lecture sessions and not less than 4 hours of laboratory/practicum per week. prerequisites biology ii biology ii lab biol 360 histology with lab term: fall credits: 4, 1 a study of the anatomy and physiology of animal cells, tissues and organs at the microscopic level. this course emphasizes the relationship between microscopic form and function starting with a brief overview of cells and progressing through the diﬀerent mammalian organ systems. laboratory activities will help students develop skill with microscopic identification and how to apply knowledge of histological form and function to interpret histopathological changes in diseased tissues. prerequisites biology i biology i lab biology ii biology ii lab biol 365 advanced topics in biology term: spring, fall credits: 4, or 4, 1 introduction to selected advanced biology topics. topics vary with instructor. may be repeated for credit when topics diﬀer. course oﬀering may or may not have a laboratory credit associated with the class. not oﬀered every year. course may include the equivalent of 3 hours of laboratory each week. (biology 120 and chemistry 120 may serve as prerequisites for some oﬀerings when used to satisfy environmental science major requirements. consult the professor oﬀering the course.) prerequisites biology i biology i lab biology ii biology ii lab biol 375 neuroendocrinology with lab term: fall credits: 4, 1 an exploration of reciprocal interactions between the nervous and endocrine systems: how the brain regulates endocrine homeostasis, and how developmental and daily/seasonal changes in hormone levels bring about changes in neural structure and function. these themes will be covered in an integrative manner that includes analysis at molecular, cellular, systems, and organismal levels. topics will include hormone and receptor structure-function relationships, pharmacology, neuroendocrine techniques, neuroendocrine systems, gonadal hormones and sex diﬀerences during development and adulthood, the neuroendocrine regulation of social behaviors, and the hippocampal-hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal stress axis. laboratory experiments will involve the careful and humane use of vertebrates as research models. laboratory topics will include behavioral assays, neuroanatomy, hormone analyses, brain tissue histology, brain tissue immunohistochemistry, and microscopy./uni00a0 laboratories are scheduled for 4 hours each week. prerequisites biology i biology i lab biology ii biology ii lab biol 376 molecular and cellular neuroscience with lab term: spring credits: 4, 1 an exploration of the unique cell biology and physiology of neurons. students will learn how neurons grow and maintain highly specialized structures such as dendrites and axons, and then use them to send, receive, and process information./uni00a0 course topics will include the cortical histogenesis, the neuronal cytoskeleton and axonal transport, passive cable theory, action potential generation and propagation, synaptic transmission, dendritic integration, and synaptic plasticity. the laboratory component of this course will reinforce lecture topics through a combination of electronic modeling, compartmental modeling using morphologically realistic neuronal models, and experimentation using acute brain slice preparations./uni00a0 laboratory topics include electrical models of the neuronal membrane and dendrites, compartmental modeling using morphologically realistic model neurons, the resting membrane potential, the population spike and i/o curves, excitatory synaptic transmission (the field epsp), inhibitory synaptic transmission, and synaptic plasticity. prerequisites biology i biology i lab biology ii biology ii lab biol 377 developmental neuroscience with lab credits: 4, 1 this course will explore how billions of neurons in our body are generated from a few specialized cells during embryonic development. topics that will be covered in this class will include signals that regulate how cells are instructed to acquire a neural identity, how cells switch over from a progenitor to a fully diﬀerentiated neuron and the impact this may have on regulation of brain size with a special emphasis on exploring the mechanistic basis of human neocortex expansion, how neurons form functional neuronal circuits for proper function and regulation of behavior, and reorganization of these neuronal circuits during post-natal development. the importance of these fundamental processes in neuronal development will be highlighted through discussions of neurodevelopmental disorders such as neural tube defects that aﬀect 3000 pregnancies each year in the us, lissencephaly, polymicrogyria among others. there will also be a brief section on use of stem cells and three-dimensional stem cell organoid approaches that are being used to answer previously unexplored questions of human nervous system development. laboratory experiments will involve the use of vertebrate embryos in a humane manner to illustrate many of the fundamental concepts taught during lectures. specific skills students can hope to acquire in the laboratory will be fine dissection skills, immunofluorescence, and microscopy, gross morphological analysis of embryos upon drug treatments known to aﬀect neuronal development and finally, quantitative approaches for assessment of experimental manipulations that aﬀect neuronal fate determination and neural circuit formation. prerequisites biology i biology i lab biology ii biology ii lab biol 380 topics in biomedical science term: spring, fall credits: 4 a topical exploration of the connection between basic biomedical science and its clinical significance. four topics are covered during the semester. each topic is taught by a st. jude children’s research hospital post-doctoral fellow; a rhodes faculty member directs the course. each topic consists of a presentation of pertinent background information on basic scientific principles, reading and discussion of secondary and primary literature within the research area of the post-doctoral fellow, and discussion of potential clinical significance of the research. prerequisites biology i biology i lab biology ii biology ii lab biol 451 research in biology term: fall credits: 1-4 qualified students may conduct original laboratory or field research in biology. a student may use four credits of research or a combination of two credits from bmb 310 combined with research credit to total four credits to satisfy one of the upper level requirements in biology. students may earn a maximum of four credits of biol 451 plus 452. interested students should consult the appropriate biology faculty member. at least three hours per week per credit, weekly conferences with faculty sponsor, written report at the end of the semester. biol 452 research in biology term: spring credits: 1-4 qualified students may conduct original laboratory or field research in biology. a student may use four credits of research or a combination of two credits from bmb 310 combined with research credit to total four credits to satisfy one of the upper level requirements in biology. students may earn a maximum of four credits of biol 451 plus 452. interested students should consult the appropriate biology faculty member. at least three hours per week per credit, weekly conferences with faculty sponsor, written report at the end of the semester. biol 453 advanced research in biology term: spring, fall credits: 1-4 qualified students may continue original laboratory or field research in biology past the four credits gained in biol 451 and 452. biol 453 credits may not be used to satisfy upper level course requirements. interested students should consult the appropriate biology faculty member. at least three hours per week per credit, weekly conferences with faculty sponsor, written report at the end of the semester. biol 460 internship in biology term: spring, fall credits: 3-4 the internship program is designed to introduce students to practical applications of their academic work. students may work oﬀ campus under professional supervision in fields related to the biological sciences, such as health care, laboratory diagnosis, forensics, environmental protection, agriculture. students will be required to integrate academic and work experiences in a written report due at the end of the internship. no more than 4 credits per semester for no more than two semesters; at least three hours involvement per week per credit. pass/fail credit only. biology 460 does not satisfy an upper level biology course requirement for the major. degree requirements f11 biol 461 internship in biology term: spring, fall credits: 1-2 similar to biol 460, but does not require a written report and does not fulfill the f11 degree requirement. biol 485 senior seminar term: spring credits: 4 all biology majors are required to enroll in senior seminar during one semester of their senior year. senior seminar is intended to be a broad, integrative experience in biology, requiring both oral and written work. biol 486 senior seminar term: spring credits: 4 all biology majors are required to enroll in senior seminar during one semester of their senior year. senior seminar is intended to be a broad, integrative experience in biology, requiring both oral and written work. biol 495 honors tutorial term: fall credits: 4-6 open to candidates for honors in biology. includes supervised honors research in a biological field of study. general information may be found in the catalogue under the honors program (http://catalog.rhodes.edu/catalog/opportunities-individualized-study). contact the department chair for additional information related specifically to honors in biology./uni00a0 biol 496 honors tutorial term: spring credits: 4-6 open to candidates for honors in biology. includes supervised honors research in a biological field of study. general information may be found in the catalogue under the honors program (http://catalog.rhodes.edu/catalog/opportunities-individualized-study). contact the department chair for additional information related specifically to honors in biology./uni00a0 bmb 310 methods in biochemistry and cell biology term: fall credits: 4 this course provides instruction in the theory and application of a variety of research techniques dealing with the structure and function of proteins in biological systems. students will gain practical laboratory experience in procedures including chromatographic separation of proteins, spectrophotometric protein assays, kinetic characterization of enzymes, polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis, antibody production, enzyme-linked immunosorbent assays (elisa), immunoblotting, cell culture, and fluorescence microscopy. additional experience will be gained in the practical application of computer-based bioinformatics tools for characterizing proteins based on their predicted amino acid sequences, as well as in protein identification through mass- spectrometry./uni00a0 this course can count as laboratory credit to accompany biology 307 or chemistry 315 or both. one hour of lecture and three hours of laboratory per week plus independent work. prerequisites foundations of chemistry first year chemistry laboratory organic chemistry i biology i biology i lab biology ii biology ii lab bmb 380 topics in biomedical sciences term: spring credits: 4 a topical exploration of the connection between basic biomedical science and its clinical significance. four topics are covered during the semester. each topic is taught by a st. jude children’s research hospital post-doctoral fellow; a rhodes faculty member directs the course. each topic consists of a presentation of pertinent background information on basic scientific principles, reading and discussion of secondary and primary literature within the research area of the post-doctoral fellow, and discussion of potential clinical significance of the research. prerequisites biology ii lab bmb 451 research in biochemistry and molecular biology term: spring, fall credits: 1-4 qualified students may conduct original laboratory research in biochemistry and molecular biology. a student may use four credit hours of research to satisfy one of the upper level requirements in biochemistry and molecular biology. interested students should consult a biochemistry and molecular biology committee member. prerequisites: the permission of a sponsoring faculty member and the biochemistry and molecular biology committee. at least three hours of lab work per week per credit, weekly conferences with faculty sponsor, written report at the end of the semester. bmb 452 research in biochemistry and molecular biology term: spring, fall credits: 1-4 qualified students may conduct original laboratory research in biochemistry and molecular biology. a student may use four credit hours of research to satisfy one of the upper level requirements in biochemistry and molecular biology. interested students should consult a biochemistry and molecular biology committee member. prerequisites: the permission of a sponsoring faculty member and the biochemistry and molecular biology committee. at least three hours of lab work per week per credit, weekly conferences with faculty sponsor, written report at the end of the semester. bmb 460 internship term: spring, fall credits: 1-4 the internship program is designed to introduce students to practical applications of their academic work. students may work oﬀ campus under professional supervision in fields related to the biochemical and molecular biological sciences, such as in bioinformatics and biotechnology. students will be required to integrate academic and work experiences in an oral and/or written report at the end of the internship. no more than 4 credits per semester for no more than two semesters. pass/fail credit only. this course does not satisfy an upper level course requirement for the major. bmb 485 senior seminar term: spring credits: 4 all biochemistry and molecular biology majors are required to enroll in senior seminar during one semester of their senior year. senior seminar is intended to be a broad, integrative experience in biochemistry and molecular biology, requiring both oral and written work. bmb 486 senior seminar term: spring credits: 4 all biochemistry and molecular biology majors are required to enroll in senior seminar during one semester of their senior year. senior seminar is intended to be a broad, integrative experience in biochemistry and molecular biology, requiring both oral and written work. bmb 495 honors tutorial term: spring, fall credits: 4-8 open to candidates for honors in biochemistry and molecular biology. includes supervised honors research and instruction in an appropriate field of study. prerequisites: permission of the biochemistry and molecular biology committee and minimum gpa of 3.5. bmb 496 honors tutorial term: spring, fall credits: 4-8 open to candidates for honors in biochemistry and molecular biology. includes supervised honors research and instruction in an appropriate field of study. prerequisites: permission of the biochemistry and molecular biology committee and minimum gpa of 3.5. bus 125 introduction to entrepreneurship term: spring, fall credits: 2 this course introduces students of diverse majors to an alternative future where they may achieve financial independence and security for themselves while also contributing to the economic well- being of the community. students will explore start-up and small business issues and develop some entrepreneurial skills. bus 126 application of entrepreneurship term: spring credits: 2 this course works with highly motivated students who wish to truly build a new business venture (startup or small business) and launch it either while in college or just after graduation. the course is open to students of diverse majors and provides practical and tactical start-up and small business support to enable students to develop their businesses, their entrepreneurial skills, and seek out resources needed to launch their new venture. there is an expectation that students in the class will apply for the annual rhodes college business plan competition held in the spring in coordination with the rhodes symposium. bus 200 taxation for working poor credits: 2 students will explore the objectives and consequences of various aspects of the u.s. federal tax system in relation to the working poor. topics covered will include the earned income tax credit, progressive and regressive taxes, and income redistribution as the result of tax provisions. in addition, students will study common misperceptions of those living in poverty. the course will consist of classroom instruction, tax preparation training, completion of a tax certification test, and volunteer tax preparation at a community-based site. this course is open to both business and non-business majors and assumes no prior knowledge of accounting or tax. degree requirements f11 bus 241 financial accounting term: spring, fall credits: 4 this course introduces students to financial accounting concepts that are used to communicate financial information of business organizations to internal and external parties. the study of financial accounting provides a strong foundation for future courses in business and finance. the student is introduced to generally accepted accounting principles, the recording of financial transactions, and the preparation and interpretation of financial statements. bus 243 managerial accounting term: spring, fall credits: 4 this course emphasizes cost accounting techniques and applications related to managerial planning, control, and decision-making. specific topics include the measurement of production costs, control of operating costs, breakeven analysis, incremental decision-making, creation of static and flexible budgets, and analysis of cost variances. /uni00a0 prerequisites financial accounting bus 246 law of basic commercial transactions term: spring, fall credits: 4 introduction to legal concepts in those areas of the law essential to commercial transactions, including creation and performance of contracts for the sale of goods and other property, negotiable instruments, real and personal property, leases, and wills and estates. the course will be taught largely utilizing the case method and problem approach, with an emphasis on how legal concepts are applied to specific factual situations. bus 265 topics in business term: spring, fall credits: 1-4 content of the course varies with instructor. the course may be repeated for credit as long as topics covered are diﬀerent. prerequisites introduction to economics bus 283 introduction to international business cases term: maymester credits: 4 course is a combination of lectures, case discussion, and site visits. lectures by rhodes and university of antwerp faculty as well as european union oﬃcials on international business including strategy, finance, marketing and management within the context of the european union will form the basis for class discussion of business cases. following work on business cases, students will visit business sites for discussion of the businesses’ strategies and performances with firm oﬃcials. the course is oﬀered in antwerp, belgium. cases and site visits will vary from year to year. business 283 is not open to students who have completed any prerequisites for business 483. by application and acceptance to the program only. (same as international studies 283.) degree requirements f11 bus 284 social impact of business in south africa term: maymester credits: 4 this maymester course will include an exploration of the impacts (both positive and negative) that for-profit companies can have on a developing country./uni00a0 specifically, students will explore the lingering eﬀects of apartheid regimes on businesses and culture in two specific cities in south africa./uni00a0 they will examine diversity and inclusion in the workplace, as well as how businesses are striving to aﬀect the vast divide between the rich and the poor within the country./uni00a0 students will meet with social entrepreneurs and corporate leaders in johannesburg and cape town and will discuss the positive impact that socially responsible businesses have made to date, what they are still hoping to accomplish and how the government has attempted to regulate corporate social responsibility./uni00a0 in addition, students will grapple with the negative outcomes of putting societal issues into the hands of corporate leaders to solve (negatives both for the corporations and for the community.) degree requirements f11 bus 341 intermediate accounting i term: spring, fall credits: 4 this course is designed to help students develop the skills and knowledge to properly prepare general-purpose financial statements and to develop an understanding of the purpose, usefulness, and limitations of financial accounting information. topics include, but are not limited to, accounting research, accrual accounting, revenue recognition, cash presentation, net receivables, inventory valuation, property and equipment, goodwill impairment, investments, and footnote disclosures. /uni00a0 prerequisites financial accounting introduction to economics managerial accounting bus 342 intermediate accounting ii term: spring, fall credits: 4 this course is a continuation of bus 341: intermediate accounting i. it is designed to help students develop the skills and knowledge to properly prepare general-purpose financial statements and to develop an understanding of the purpose, usefulness, and limitations of financial accounting information. topics include, but are not limited to, investments, contingencies, debt, deferred taxes, pensions, equity, earnings per share, error corrections and the statement of cash flows. prerequisites intermediate accounting i bus 345 federal income tax term: fall credits: 4 this course introduces students to the principles of taxation of individuals. specific topics include the calculation of income, deductions, exemptions, tax credits, capital gains and losses, depreciation, employee expenses, and gains and losses from property transactions. course coverage includes the theory and purpose of taxation, the influence of taxes on taxpayer behavior, and discussion of recent changes to the tax laws and tax system. /uni00a0 prerequisites financial accounting introduction to economics bus 351 corporate financial management term: spring, fall credits: 4 the main objectives of the financial manager are to plan for, acquire, and use funds in an eﬃcient manner in order to maximize the value of the firm. this course introduces financial planning, the discounted cash flow model, modern portfolio theory, and the capital asset pricing model. major topics covered include financial analysis, decision-making under uncertainty, cost of capital, company valuation techniques, and history of capital markets. students are introduced to financial analysis and modeling using microsoft excel, real-world case studies, and contemporary financial issues. prerequisites: bus 241/uni00a0financial accounting, econ 100 introduction to economics prerequisite or corequisite: bus 243 cost accounting, and econ 290 statistical analysis for economics and business or math 211 applied statistics for the formal & natural sciences bus 361 management of organizations term: spring, fall credits: 4 focuses on evidence-based management to separate useful from useless management practices. initially, the course introduces scientific principles as an analytic framework for evaluating management theories about people at work, especially theories about work motivation, leadership and job design. later, the course focus shifts to the topic of organizational design and the management of firms in an ever-changing business and competitive environment. this subject identifies structures and processes for managing within the ever-changing environments organizations face. students acquire experiences in applying scientific analyses to real-world situations by analyzing cases and through research projects. /uni00a0 prerequisite/uni00a0/uni00a0econ 100 intro to economics prerequisite or corequisite: econ 290 statistical analysis for economics and business, or math 211 applied statistics for the formal & natural sciences prerequisites introduction to economics bus 371 marketing management term: spring, fall credits: 4 an introduction to the study of marketing as a value adding exchange process. the theoretical underpinnings of how businesses add value to consumers and collaborators is examined. topics covered include the marketing process, buyers and markets, identifying market opportunities and satisfying them through managing pricing, products, services, communications and channels. prerequisites: econ 100 intro to economics prerequisite/corequisite: econ 290 statistical analysis for economics and business or math 211applied statistics for the formal & natural sciences, bus 243 cost accounting bus 448 auditing term: spring credits: 4 conceptual approach to auditing process, procedures, communications and professional environment which includes auditing standards, legal responsibilities and professional ethics. prerequisite or corequisite: bus 342 intermediate accounting theory ii bus 452 cases in managerial finance term: fall credits: 4 application of financial theories introduced in financial management (business 351) to actual business problems using quantitative and qualitative techniques. presented with debatable alternatives, students analyze, choose, and defend their ideas and a course of action. financial theories are reexamined in conjunction with their related cases. case topics include financing current operations, long-term financing, investment decisions, signaling with dividend and debt policies, and mergers and acquisitions. contemporary corporate financial issues are examined, as well as financial ethics. extensive creation of computerized financial spreadsheets. students are organized into teams for case preparation. /uni00a0 prerequisites corporate financial management bus 454 international financial management/financial analytics term: spring credits: 4 introduction to the environment of international financial management and financial analytics. the course includes the balance of payments, foreign exchange markets, parity conditions in the foreign exchange market, derivatives, selected investment topics, and financial analytics. presentation of stock valuations, mergers and acquisitions and investment analysis, using discounted cash flow analysis and modern portfolio theory. students are also exposed to options and forward contracts, which are important hedging securities. introduction to financial analytics and multivariate statistical models. case studies are included and students are organized into teams. prerequisites corporate financial management bus 460 internship/professional development term: spring, fall credits: 3 or 4 open only to business majors, the internship program provides an experiential approach to the learning process and aﬀords students the opportunity to work in both business and nonprofit organizations for academic credit. internship placements are designed to complement learning goals and career plans by allowing the student to apply theoretical principles learned in the traditional classroom. placements are arranged by the director of career services and work schedules are arranged by the student and the on-site supervisor. typically students work on specific projects related to their career interests and compatible with the goals and interests of the sponsoring organization. a major focus of the course is teaching students better interview skills and how to improve their written and verbal communication techniques all within a context of the student becoming more professional as he/she approaches obtaining a job, and how better to conduct themselves on the job. internships are available to junior and senior business majors. arrangements for internships are made the semester prior to the actual experience. no more than 8 internship credits may be allowed to count toward the credits required for graduation. prerequisites: bus 341 intermediate accounting theory i or bus 351 corporate financial management, or bus 361 management of organizations, or bus 371 marketing management. degree requirements f11 bus 461 internship term: spring, fall credits: 1-2 this internship course provides an experiential approach to the learning process and aﬀords business majors the opportunity to work in both business and nonprofit organizations for academic credit. students are encouraged to explore areas of possible career interest through internships. students must have the approval of and coordinate with a designated professor in the department of business on an internship that exposes the student to meaningful aspects of a career in business. the career services oﬃce will also coordinate the internship choice. there are requirements for both the sponsoring organization and for the student. the student must submit a resume, an application, have an interview arranged an interview with the on-site supervisor, and prepare an essay summarizing the experience, all as directed by the supervising professor. this internship program is limited to business majors and is available only for non-paid internships. course may be repeated for credit, but no more than eight credits may be counted toward graduation. grades will be assigned on a pass/fail basis. prerequisites internship/professional development bus 463 international management term: fall credits: 4 explores the application of management models to international business decisions in the areas of work design, organizational structure, strategic planning and human resource/personnel management. the focus is on the usefulness of contemporary models across diverse cultural settings as indicated by recent empirical research. prerequisites management of organizations bus 465 advanced topics in business term: spring, fall credits: 2 or 4 content of course varies with instructor. the course may be repeated as long as topics covered are diﬀerent. bus 466 personnel and human resource management term: spring credits: 4 an introduction to the functions of personnel/human resource management. topics covered include human resource planning, training and development, wage and salary administration, selection instrument validation, employee performance evaluation, and employee relations. special attention is given to the use of information systems for managing personnel functions. a computer/library project that focuses on the relationship between work attitudes and work behavior is required. /uni00a0 /uni00a0 prerequisites management of organizations statistical analysis for economics and business bus 467 diversity and inclusion in the workplace term: spring credits: 4 an exploration of how organizations can create a more inclusive corporate climate, which will allow them to learn from and enhance the potential of employees from all backgrounds. discussions and assignments will examine research on and practical solutions for management of global and diverse workforces. the course will begin with research on the development of personal stereotypes as well as systemic discrimination in society, and will progress into specific human resources policies and decisions aﬀecting employees at various stages of their careers. the course will end with an examination of organizational cultures and the development of inclusive workplaces. (course oﬀered in alternate years.) prerequisites management of organizations bus 470 summer internship abroad term: summer credits: 1 the department of business summer international internship program oﬀers students the opportunity to spend time abroad while working in a foreign country. all internship projects must be approved by the department and by career services. scholarships are awarded on a competitive basis. pass-fail only. bus 472 marketing analytics term: fall credits: 4 this course focuses on the use of statistics and analytics for decision-making. while foundational statistical concepts will be reviewed, the course will cover marketing applications of statistical (mostly multivariate) methods and models. the class will use appropriate software (statistical) packages. prerequisites: econ 290 statistical analysis for economics and business or math 211 applied statistics for the formal and natural sciences or psych 211 statistical methods bus 473 international marketing term: spring credits: 4 an introduction to the global marketing environment, with an examination of how international business variables aﬀect the marketing process. objectives include understanding the diﬀerences between domestic and international marketing, providing a framework for analyzing major risks and opportunities in foreign markets, and developing techniques for preparing and implementing strategic marketing plans through the use of case studies. prerequisites marketing management bus 474 services marketing term: fall credits: 4 services marketing is the management of customer experiences. hospitals, executive training firms, movie theaters, universities, law firms, non-profit agencies, insurance agencies, restaurants, ad agencies, hotels, recruiting firms, etc. (i.e., both consumer and business-to-business firms) are examples of service businesses. however, all businesses have some component of service to them. the main objective of the course is to understand the nature of services and discuss ways in which services can streamline operations and improve productivity and profitability through examination of the customer service experience and establishing the relationship between customer value and sustainable competitive advantage. there will be case assignments and presentations to enhance in-class learning experience./uni00a0 /uni00a0 prerequisites marketing management bus 481 business ethics and social responsibility term: fall credits: 4 an exploration of the ethical and social issues facing business leaders today. students will gain a basic understanding of philosophical, ethical theories and begin to apply them to a variety of business cases and ethical dilemmas, using critical thinking skills and reputable research to examine issues from multiple perspectives. students will learn how to recognize ethical dilemmas, examine the consequences of various decisions, and be able to develop and defend arguments for the business decisions that they make. juniors and seniors only. /uni00a0 bus 483 advanced international business cases term: maymester credits: 4 the course is a combination of lectures, case analyses, and site visits. lectures by rhodes and university of antwerp faculty as well as european union oﬃcials on international business including strategy, finance, marketing and management within the context of the european union will form the basis for written case analyses and oral presentations. following case completion, students will visit business sites for discussion of the businesses’ strategies and performances with firm oﬃcials. students enrolled in this course will be required to complete detailed and sophisticated case analyses drawing upon prerequisite course work as well as course lectures. the course is oﬀered in antwerp, belgium. cases and site visits will vary from year to year. bus 483 may be used as one of the two required electives for a business or economics/business major. open only by application and acceptance to the program. prerequisite: bus 351 or bus 361 or bus 371 degree requirements f11 bus 484 social impact of business in south africa term: maymester credits: 4 this maymester course will include an exploration of the impacts (both positive and negative) that for-profit companies can have on a developing country./uni00a0 specifically, students will explore the lingering eﬀects of apartheid regimes on businesses and culture in two specific cities in south africa./uni00a0 they will examine diversity and inclusion in the workplace, as well as how businesses are striving to aﬀect the vast divide between the rich and the poor within the country./uni00a0 students will meet with social entrepreneurs and corporate leaders in johannesburg and cape town and will discuss the positive impact that socially responsible businesses have made to date, what they are still hoping to accomplish and how the government has attempted to regulate corporate social responsibility./uni00a0 in addition, students will grapple with the negative outcomes of putting societal issues into the hands of corporate leaders to solve (negatives both for the corporations and for the community.) prerequisite: bus 351 or bus 361 or bus 371 degree requirements f11 bus 486 senior seminar in business term: spring credits: 2, or 4 by permission of department chair a study of the theory and practice of setting and administering business policy, this course integrates the student’s previous study of economics and business. emphasis is on appraising a company’s performance and strategy considering general social and economic conditions, as well as the internal conditions of the firm; developing objectives, policies and plans; and developing, guiding, and maintaining an administrative organization to carry out the plans and meet the objectives. pedagogy includes computerized case studies in business and team teaching. students are organized into teams for case preparation and presentation, and will be required to present their analyses orally and in writing and to respond to analyses of other students. /uni00a0 prerequisites: senior status; corporate financial management, management of organizations, marketing management, completion of at least two of the upper level business electives from two diﬀerent areas as required for a major in business, or permission of the department chair. bus 545 federal income tax term: fall credits: 4 same course as bus 345 with additional requirements for graduate credit this course introduces students to the principles of taxation of individuals. specific topics include the calculation of income, deductions, exemptions, tax credits, capital gains and losses, depreciation, employee expenses, and gains and losses from property transactions. course coverage includes the theory and purpose of taxation, the influence of taxes on taxpayer behavior, and discussion of recent changes to the tax laws and tax system. prerequisites: graduate student only bus 548 auditing term: spring credits: 4 conceptual approach to auditing process, procedures, communications and professional environment which includes auditing standards, legal responsibilities and professional ethics. /uni00a0 bus 552 cases in managerial finance credits: 4 same as business 452 with additional requirements for graduate credit. econ 290 recommended prior to taking this course. prerequisites corporate financial management bus 554 international finance credits: 4 same as business 454 with additional requirements for graduate credit. econ 290 recommended prior to taking this course. prerequisites corporate financial management bus 563 international management term: spring, fall credits: 4 same as business 463 with additional requirements for graduate credit. prerequisites management of organizations bus 565 graduate topics in accounting term: spring, fall credits: 1-4 course content varies with instructor. this course may be repeated for credit as along as topics covered are diﬀerent. potential topics include international accounting, accounting for derivatives and hedging, forensic accounting and/or esg accounting. prerequisites: varies with course topic /uni00a0 bus 566 personnel and human resource management term: spring, fall credits: 4 same as business 466 with additional requirements for graduate credit. prerequisites: bus 361 and one of the following: econ 290, or psyc 211/uni00a0 bus 572 cases in market strategy and value analysis term: fall credits: 4 same as business 472 with additional requirements for graduate credit. /uni00a0 econ/uni00a0290 is recommended prior to taking this course. prerequisites marketing management bus 573 international marketing term: spring, fall credits: 4 same as business 473 with additional requirements for graduate credit. prerequisites marketing management bus 583 advanced international business cases term: maymester credits: 4 same as business 483 with additional requirements for graduate credit. prerequisite: bus 351 or bus 361 or bus 371 bus 641 research and topics in financial accounting term: spring, fall credits: 4 this course will require students to research and discuss current topics in financial accounting with an emphasis on recent or proposed accounting standards (fasb codification). prerequisites:/uni00a0 graduate student only. bus 643 cost accounting and control systems term: spring, fall credits: 4 an advanced study of conceptual and practical aspects of cost accounting. topics include, but are not limited to, measurement of organizational performance, resource allocation, activity-based costing, break-even analysis, process costing, cost variances, transfer pricing, and choosing among alternative projects. emphasis will be placed on understanding the organization as a control system. prerequisites: graduate student only bus 644 accounting for governmental and not- for-profit entities credits: 4 an overview of the accounting principles, procedures, and reporting for governmental and not-for- profit entities. topics include, but are not limited to, accounting for state and local governments, operating statement accounts, budgetary accounting, general capital assets, long-term liabilities and debt service, college and university accounting, and health care accounting. the course will stress comparisons between governmental accounting and corporate accounting to strengthen the students’ understanding of the conceptual bases of each. prerequisites; graduate student only. bus 645 taxation of business organizations term: spring, fall credits: 4 an intensive examination of the federal income tax laws as they relate to partnerships, trusts, and corporations. discussions will focus on economic and policy issues surrounding the current tax structure. also, emphasis will be placed on tax research to enable students to analyze complex tax problems. prerequisites: graduate studnet only. bus 646 advanced accounting term: spring, fall credits: 4 this course will address various topics in advanced accounting including, but not limited to, consolidations, governmental and not-for-profit, foreign currency transactions and partnership accounting will be examined. emerging issues related to the accounting profession will be discussed as an integral part of the course. prerequisites: graduate students only. bus 647 legal and regulatory environment of business term: spring, fall credits: 4 the impact of federal regulations on businesses, particularly in the areas of antitrust law and securities regulations. this course will examine the legal responsibilities of business owners and directors, as well as the responsibilities of business entities. prerequisites: graduate student only. bus 648 systems auditing term: spring, fall credits: 4 this course will focus on the advanced auditing topics especially as it relates to accounting systems. topics include, but are not limited to, internal control, data integrity/quality, management assertions, sampling, and soc reports. prerequisites: graduate students only. bus 649 ethics and law for accounting term: spring credits: 4-6 this course exposes students to the basic concepts of business law and ethics as applicable to the accounting profession. this course will analyze the relationship between business, society and the accounting profession by creating an awareness of legal and ethical topics such as the contracts, antitrust law, securities regulations, professional responsibilities, and ethical decision making. bus 650 data analytics and information systems term: fall credits: 4 this course will focus on understanding data analytics and information system concepts in accounting. this course will also include applying those concepts through the use of software such as excel, power bi, and/or alteryx to address analytics in accounting, auditing, and tax contexts. the focus is on methods and techniques to analyze and understand data while also making it easier to interpret, present, and utilize the results for decision making. prerequisite: graduate students only bus 665 graduate topics in accounting term: spring, fall credits: 1-4 course content varies with instructor. this course may be repeated for credit as along as topics covered are diﬀerent. potential topics include international accounting, accounting for derivatives and hedging, forensic accounting and/or esg accounting. prerequisites: graduate student only bus 675 professional development and exam preparation term: fall credits: 1-4 this is a self-paced, self-study course using approved exam preparation software. students will be required to complete specified modules to earn approved credit hours. students will also be required to meet periodically with supervising faculty. students with suﬃcient accounting courses to take the cpa examination or equivalent professional examination (e.g., cma examination, cfa examination), may choose up to 4 credits. bus 680 ethics: business and society term: spring, fall credits: 4 this is a survey course of the relationship between business and society. the course explores a wide variety of analytical models that might be used to evaluate business decisions from an ethical perspective. the course uses lectures, discussion and case methods to analyze the relationship between business and the public with which it interacts. chem 105 topics in chemistry term: spring, fall credits: 4 chemical principles and information will be studied through the examination of thematic topics in the chemical sciences. designed for students majoring in disciplines other than science and mathematics. includes a laboratory experience. degree requirements f7 chem 107 chemistry and archaeology term: fall credits: 4 the scientific analysis and study of ancient materials has greatly enhanced our understanding of the past. in this course for non-science majors, we will undertake a survey of archaeological materials and the science that is pertinent to the development of an understanding of such materials. minimal prior knowledge of chemistry is assumed, and only basic math skills are required. three lecture periods and one laboratory experience each week. degree requirements f7 chem 108 chemistry and art term: spring credits: 4 the materials available to artists and the properties of those materials have greatly aﬀected the type of artistic work that has been produced. in this course for non-science majors, we will explore the intersection of chemistry with the visual arts. the chemistry of ceramic materials, glasses, and metals will be considered, along with the chemistry of pigments and painting. minimal prior knowledge of chemistry is assumed, and only basic math skills are required. three lecture periods and one laboratory experience each week. degree requirements f7 chem 120 foundations of chemistry term: fall credits: 3 a study of the basic concepts and principles of chemistry. topics to be considered include stoichiometry, acids and bases, atomic and molecular structure, bonding, kinetics and thermodynamics./uni00a0f7 awarded only with satisfactory completion of chem 120 and chem 125. degree requirements f7 chem 125 first year chemistry laboratory term: fall credits: 1 co-requisite course for chem 120. an experimental introduction to the physical and chemical properties of matter. one laboratory period a week. chem 206 environmental chemistry term: spring credits: 4 an introduction to the chemical principles of water, soil, air and the biosphere, including those that govern the fate, transport and eﬀects of chemical species in nature. the course will focus on the chemistry of natural systems as well as human impact on these systems. various methods and modern analytical instrumentation will be introduced. . three hours of lecture per week. prerequisites foundations of chemistry chem 211 organic chemistry i term: spring credits: 4 a general survey of elementary theory, preparation, reactions, and properties of the compounds of carbon, both aliphatic and aromatic, containing the most important functional groups. prerequisites foundations of chemistry first year chemistry laboratory chem 212 organic chemistry ii with lab term: fall credits: 4, 2 a continuation of organic chemistry i. topics to be covered including various instrumental methods to determine molecular structures of organic compounds; reactions and preparations of carbonyl compounds, amines and aromatics. lab co-requisite emphasis is placed upon synthesis and the common laboratory techniques encountered in organic chemistry. one hour of lecture and three hours of laboratory per week. prerequisites organic chemistry i chem 240 analytical chemistry with lab term: spring credits: 4, 1 lecture topics include sampling, statistical analysis, experimental design and optimization, chemical equilibrium, and an introduction to modern instrumental analysis. laboratory experiments will apply the total analytical process, from collecting samples, chemical workup, and analysis. experimental methods will include volumetric analysis and elementary instrumental analysis. three hours of laboratory per week. prerequisites organic chemistry ii with lab chem 260 collaborative chemistry communities term: spring credits: 2 this service learning course allows students to work with local teachers to design chemistry experiments and exercises. lecture topics include modern chemistry pedagogy. degree requirements f11 prerequisites organic chemistry ii with lab chem 311 physical chemistry i term: fall credits: 4 this is an upper level course that explores the interface of physics and chemistry. calculus, group theory and matrix algebra are used extensively in deriving chemical concepts. derivatives, integration, programming, matrix algebra and basic group theory are required to complete assignments. an introduction to quantum mechanics and spectroscopy as applied to molecules and small molecular clusters. includes discussion of nmr, lasers, and ab initio calculations. co-requisites: phys 109 or phys 111 degree requirements f6 prerequisites analytical chemistry with lab chem 312 physical chemistry ii lab term: spring credits: 1 an introduction to chemical thermodynamics, kinetics, and statistical mechanics as applied to chemical and biochemical systems. experimental study of physico-chemical systems using modern instrumental techniques. one laboratory period a week. additional time outside lab hours may be required. prerequisites physical chemistry i chem 315 biochemistry term: spring, fall credits: 4 a study of the metabolism of carbohydrates, fats and proteins, the kinetics and bioenergetics of enzymatic reactions in metabolic pathways will also be studied. prerequisites organic chemistry ii with lab biology i biology i lab chem 325 computational protein design and engineering credits: 4 students in this course will explore and participate in development of protein-based therapeutics and biotools through hands-on computational protein design and engineering. this course will be an interactive lecture/lab that takes a deep dive into using computational chemistry to design protein-based therapeutic interventions, to computationally engineer biotools that could be used to study biological systems, to develop models of proteins structures that could advance our understanding of diseases, and to develop biocatalysts which have applications in biopharmaceuticals or industry. students will learn relevant skills and tools used in protein design and biomolecular engineering such as advanced characterization of protein structure, protein- protein docking, homology modeling, computational biochemistry, bioinformatics methodologies, and molecular dynamics. no computational experience is required for this course. this course is a course based undergraduate research experience (cure) and can be used to develop or expand students’ exposure to research environments, garner research experience for preparation and matriculation into graduate programs and/or professional health programs. prerequisites biochemistry chem 406 instrumental analysis term: fall credits: 4 a study of the principles and practice modern instrumental analyses, including absorption and emission spectroscopy, mass spectrometry, chromatography, and fourier transform infrared spectroscopy. emphasis is placed on understanding the major instrumental methods chemists use to study chemical phenomena. one hour of lecture and 3 hours of laboratory per week. prerequisites analytical chemistry with lab physical chemistry ii lab chem 408 inorganic chemistry with lab term: spring credits: 4, 1 an in-depth study of d-block coordination compounds including topics of molecular symmetry, group theory, bonding, vibrational spectroscopy, ligand field theory, organometallics, and catalysis. includes an interdisciplinary synthetic laboratory involving inorganic synthesis and catalysis of organic reactions. prerequisites analytical chemistry with lab chem 411 medicinal and computational chemistry with lab term: spring credits: 4, 1 this course will cover a variety of topics in organic, physical and/uni00a0biochemistry, all related to the overall theme of medicinal chemistry. topics/uni00a0may include natural products, organic/uni00a0synthesis, computational modeling,/uni00a0toxicology, and drug design. this course counts towards the neuroscience major if the student completes their independent project on a topic in neuroscience. this lab course will cover topics in advanced organic chemistry, spectroscopy/uni00a0and characterization, biochemistry, and modelling techniques. prerequisites organic chemistry ii with lab chem 415 advanced biochemistry term: spring credits: 4 the course consists of an independent project designed to integrate topics in biochemistry, and to hone the students’ writing and oral presentation skills. prerequisites biochemistry chem 416 mechanisms of drug action term: spring, fall credits: 4 a study of chemicals that produce change in function of biological systems and the mechanisms by which these chemicals act. the course focuses on the main classes of drugs as well as some of the more popular contemporary drugs and how they aﬀect their target biological systems. applicable pharmacology-related literature is also emphasized to give students exposure to the types of techniques used in drug research. prerequisites: biol 130/131 biol 140/141 chem 211 chem 212 chem 240 or chem 414 chem 420 advanced topics in chemistry term: spring, fall credits: 4 a study of contemporary topics in chemistry or chemistry related disciplines. specific course themes will vary from semester to semester. this course will build upon introductory and intermediate level studies in chemistry. /uni00a0 prerequisites organic chemistry ii with lab analytical chemistry with lab chem 422 advanced organic chemistry: topics term: spring, fall credits: 2-4 a study of the principles and practice of modern methods of organic chemistry, including nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy, mass spectrometry, and infrared spectroscopy. the course will focus on structure determination and the original design and synthesis of molecules. hours may be distributed between lecture and laboratory. prerequisites organic chemistry ii with lab chem 451 research in chemistry term: fall credits: 1-4 original investigations of chemical or biochemical problems usually related/uni00a0to research being carried on by members of the department. the first semester/uni00a0is probationary, and/uni00a0enrollment in the second semester and beyond requires/uni00a0approval of the instructor. for degree purposes four credits of 451 and/or/uni00a0452 will be equivalent to a course even if these credits are not all taken in/uni00a0the same semester. chem 452 research in chemistry term: spring credits: 1-4 original investigations of chemical or biochemical problems usually related/uni00a0to research being carried on by members of the department. the first semester/uni00a0is probationary, and/uni00a0enrollment in the second semester and beyond requires/uni00a0approval of the instructor. for degree purposes four credits of 451 and/or/uni00a0452 will be equivalent to a course even if these credits are not all taken in/uni00a0the same semester. chem 460 chemistry internship term: spring, fall credits: 1-4 a course designed to give students experience in chemical research and technology, guided by a chemical professional mentor. students may work on or oﬀ campus depending on the preferences of the sponsoring company or institution. examples of possible work area include chemical manufacturing, product discovery, research and development, or forensic characterization. successful completion will include a written report and an oral presentation. chem 485 chemistry senior seminar term: fall credits: 4 a seminar course required of all senior chemistry majors. the course is designed to promote independent thinking, integration of topics in chemistry, and to provide practice in group discussion and in written and oral presentation. chem 486 chemistry senior seminar term: spring credits: 4 a seminar course required of all senior chemistry majors. the course is designed to promote independent thinking, integration of topics in chemistry, and to provide practice in group discussion and in written and oral presentation. chem 495 honors tutorial term: fall credits: 4-8 open to candidates for honors in chemistry. includes supervised honors research in a chemical or biochemical field of study. chem 496 honors tutorial term: spring credits: 4-8 open to candidates for honors in chemistry. includes supervised honors research in a chemical or biochemical field of study. chin 100 chinese language in china term: maymester credits: 2 chinese 100 is a 2-credit course taught to students with no prior knowledge of chinese during the rhodes college maymester program in a host institution in china. the course focuses on the four basic skills of listening, speaking, reading, and writing. it introduces students to chinese language and culture. it involves language studies and cultural activities. chin 101 elementary chinese term: spring, fall credits: 4 this two-semester course introduces chinese to students with no knowledge of the language. equal emphasis will be given to acquiring the rudiments of spoken and written chinese. students who complete the year-long course will master approximately 700 characters and a vocabulary of a 1,000 words. it also intends to acquaint students with some aspects of chinese culture and society as a necessary part of their education in this language. chin 102 elementary chinese term: spring, fall credits: 4 this two-semester course introduces chinese to students with no knowledge of the language. equal emphasis will be given to acquiring the rudiments of spoken and written chinese. students who complete the year-long course will master approximately 700 characters and a vocabulary of a 1,000 words. it also intends to acquaint students with some aspects of chinese culture and society as a necessary part of their education in this language. chin 200 chinese language in china term: maymester credits: 2 chinese 200 is a 2-credit course taught during the rhodes college maymester program in a host institution in china. the course focuses on the four skills of listening, speaking, reading, and writing. students enrolled in this should have completed chinese 102 or have equivalent level of proficiency. it deepens students’ knowledge and understanding of chinese language and culture. it involves language studies and cultural activities. chin 201 intermediate chinese term: spring, fall credits: 4 in addition to the same objectives for the first year, this course aims at improving students’ aural- oral skills to achieve fluency and comprehension, further developing their proficiency in reading for understanding, and enhancing their ability to write in chinese and to translate from chinese into english and vice versa. degree requirements f10 chin 202 intermediate chinese term: spring, fall credits: 4 in addition to the same objectives for the first year, this course aims at improving students’ aural- oral skills to achieve fluency and comprehension, further developing their proficiency in reading for understanding, and enhancing their ability to write in chinese and to translate from chinese into english and vice versa. chin 205 modern chinese literature in english translation term: spring, fall credits: 4 an introductory course of modern chinese literature (1918-1989) designed to acquaint students with major phases of modern chinese literature and some masterpieces of representative writers in relation to political and social changes. the course provides opportunities to learn about modern chinese culture, society, and politics through readings of chosen works and trains students to read thoughtfully and critically. the course is taught in english. chinese 305 is reserved for majors, who will do substantial portions of the work for the course in chinese. degree requirements f4 f9 chin 206 introduction to east asian cultures term: spring, fall credits: 4 this course introduces east asian cultures through the classic works of china, japan, and korea. in order to better grasp the cultural legacies of east asia, students will read various cultural texts such as fiction, poetry, drama, and prose in english translation. this course is designed to help students develop a more sophisticated understanding of and critical appreciation for east asian cultures. the course is taught in english. chinese 306 is reserved for majors, who will do substantial portions of the work for the course in chinese. degree requirements f4 f9 chin 207 orientalism and global china on screen term: spring, fall credits: 4 this course explores both the evolving chinese worldview represented in chinese films and the western texts on china and the orient/east/asia. while the course introduces the theoretical foundation of chinese worldviews in response to orientalism and globalization, students will also survey the (mis-)representation of india and the middle east in the western world for comparative purposes. in addition to watching films and documentaries, students are required to read scholarly works, historical accounts, poems, and travelogues in order to better understand diverse worldviews. by engaging the east-west dynamic, this course is designed for students interested in the issues of cross-cultural understanding and global consciousness. the course is taught in english. chinese 307 is reserved for majors, who will do substantial portions of the work for the course in chinese. degree requirements f5 f9 chin 210 chinese literary heritage term: spring, fall credits: 4 this course introduces one of the world’s richest literary heritages: traditional chinese literature. it conducts a general survey of chinese literature from high antiquity up to modern times with the focus on some representative writers and their works. it consists of three major sections: poetry and prose, drama, and fiction. all readings are in english. no prior knowledge of chinese language and culture is required. degree requirements f4 f9 chin 214 introduction to chinese culture term: spring, fall credits: 4 this course introduces students to chinese civilization and culture from the multiple perspectives of geography, history, philosophy, language, literature, religion, art, people, society, and general ways of life. major concerns will include, but are not restricted to, forms of material and spiritual culture that have developed and changed through china’s continuous traditions; individual and collective values that underlie social life, political organization, economics systems, family structure, human relationships, and individual behavior; and the rationales that have made chinese culture what it is. the course is taught in english. chinese 314 is reserved for majors, who will do substantial portions of the work for the course in chinese. degree requirements f3 f9 chin 215 gender in chinese literature term: spring, fall credits: 4 this course looks into the changing constructions of gender, sexuality, and desire in chinese literature and film over time. it seeks to examine the social, cultural and institutional norms of gender behaviors in chinese society as well as how the fictional imagination conforms to, deviates from and subverts these norms. other critical issues discussed include the complex relationships between identity and performance, the construction of female subjectivity and male fantasy, gender and genre. students will be encouraged to conduct cross-genre and cross-cultural comparisons. all readings in english. chinese 315 is reserved for majors, who will do substantial portions of the work for the course in chinese. degree requirements f4 f9 chin 216 asian urbanization through cinema term: spring, fall credits: 4 urbanization is one of the most prominent social-historical transformations that many asian countries have experienced since the beginning of the 20th century. today, the huge wave of rural-urban internal migration in asian countries represents one of the largest population flows in the world. this course looks into ongoing urbanization as well as related demographic, economic and socio-cultural changes occurring in a number of asian cities and how the challenges associated with such transformations are portrayed in contemporary cinema. the course looks into metropolises in mainland china, hong kong, taiwan, japan, and korea. in addition, it also explores diasporic asian spaces and the subsequent issues regarding race, immigration, identity and sense of place. it combines urban studies with film studies. taught in english. no prerequisites. this course also qualifies as an elective for urban studies, asian studies, film studies, and environmental studies. degree requirements f5 f9 chin 218 taste, culture and power: asia and global foodways term: spring credits: 4 as a basic human need, food has had a powerful influence on world civilization. this course uses asia as a hub to examine the historical and contemporary transcontinental and transnational flows of food and its significant impact on societies and cultures. it looks into how the migration of food, both out from asia and into asia throughout history, connected diﬀerent regions and cultures in the world and how this “inter-connectedness” has shaped human experiences, societies and cultures. the second half of the course pays special attention to the globalization of asian food and the making of ethnic cuisines in contemporary societies (especially in north america), and urge us to re-think issues regarding race, ethnicity, immigration, gender and identity in food culture and politics. all readings and discussion are in english. no prerequisites. degree requirements f3 f9 chin 220 contemporary chinese cinema term: spring, fall credits: 4 an introductory course on contemporary chinese cinema that combines film viewing with readings of film theory and criticism. the aim is to provide a window for students to glimpse the complexity of contemporary chinese culture. students will view selected chinese films produced in mainland china, taiwan, and hong kong from the 1980’s to the present and be required to read essays of critical studies which explore the interrelations of various issues in chinese society. the course is taught in english. chinese 320 is reserved for majors, who will do substantial portions of the work for the course in chinese. degree requirements f5 f9 chin 300 chinese language in china term: maymester credits: 2 chinese 300 is a 2-credit course taught during the rhodes college maymester program in a host institution in china. the course is designed to further develop proficiency in listening, speaking, reading and writing through studies of socio-cultural topics relevant to today's china. students enrolled in this should have completed chinese 202 or have equivalent level of proficiency. it involves language studies and cultural activities. chin 301 advanced chinese term: spring, fall credits: 4 this course lays greater emphasis on further developing students’ proficiency in reading for understanding and enhancing their ability to write in chinese and to translate from chinese into english and vice versa. at the end of the year- long course students should be able to read chinese materials in everyday life, to write compositions in chinese characters for daily communication, and to translate nontechnical materials from chinese into english and vice versa with the help of dictionaries. chin 302 advanced chinese term: spring, fall credits: 4 this course lays greater emphasis on further developing students’ proficiency in reading for understanding and enhancing their ability to write in chinese and to translate from chinese into english and vice versa. at the end of the year- long course students should be able to read chinese materials in everyday life, to write compositions in chinese characters for daily communication, and to translate nontechnical materials from chinese into english and vice versa with the help of dictionaries. chin 305 modern chinese literature term: spring, fall credits: 4 an introductory course of modern chinese literature (1918-1989) designed to acquaint students with major phases of modern chinese literature and some masterpieces of representative writers in relation to political and social changes. the course provides opportunities to learn about modern chinese culture, society, and politics through readings of chosen works and trains students to read thoughtfully and critically. the course is taught in english. chinese 305 is reserved for majors, who will do substantial portions of the work for the course in chinese. degree requirements f4 f9 chin 306 introduction to east asian cultures term: spring, fall credits: 4 this course introduces east asian cultures through the classic works of china, japan, and korea. in order to better grasp the cultural legacies of east asia, students will read various cultural texts such as fiction, poetry, drama, and prose in english translation. this course is designed to help students develop a more sophisticated understanding of and critical appreciation for east asian cultures. the course is taught in english. chinese 306 is reserved for majors, who will do substantial portions of the work for the course in chinese. degree requirements f4 f9 chin 307 orientalism and global china on screen term: spring, fall credits: 4 this course explores both the evolving chinese worldview represented in chinese films and the western texts on china and the orient/east/asia. while the course introduces the theoretical foundation of chinese worldviews in response to orientalism and globalization, students will also survey the (mis-)representation of india and the middle east in the western world for comparative purposes. in addition to watching films and documentaries, students are required to read scholarly works, historical accounts, poems, and travelogues in order to better understand diverse worldviews. by engaging the east-west dynamic, this course is designed for students interested in the issues of cross-cultural understanding and global consciousness. the course is taught in english. chinese 307 is reserved for majors, who will do substantial portions of the work for the course in chinese. degree requirements f5 f9 chin 310 readings (advanced level) term: spring, fall credits: 1-4 readings designed to meet individual interests and needs. may be taken more than once for credit with new topics. chin 311 supplemental readings term: spring, fall credits: 1 this reading course is reserved for chinese majors and/uni00a0minors. it is designed to give students opportunities to read, write, and speak in chinese in conjunction with the coursework in english. may be taken more than once for credit with new topics. chin 314 introduction to chinese culture term: spring, fall credits: 4 this course introduces students to chinese civilization and culture from the multiple perspectives of geography, history, philosophy, language, literature, religion, art, people, society, and general ways of life. major concerns will include, but are not restricted to, forms of material and spiritual culture that have developed and changed through china’s continuous traditions; individual and collective values that underlie social life, political organization, economics systems, family structure, human relationships, and individual behavior; and the rationales that have made chinese culture what it is. the course is taught in english. chinese 314 is reserved for majors, who will do substantial portions of the work for the course in chinese. degree requirements f3 f9 chin 315 gender in chinese literature term: spring, fall credits: 4 this course looks into the changing constructions of gender, sexuality, and desire in chinese literature and film over time. it seeks to examine the social, cultural and institutional norms of gender behaviors in chinese society as well as how the fictional imagination conforms to, deviates from and subverts these norms. other critical issues discussed include the complex relationships between identity and performance, the construction of female subjectivity and male fantasy, gender and genre. students will be encouraged to conduct cross-genre and cross-cultural comparisons. all readings in english. chinese 315 is reserved for majors, who will do substantial portions of the work for the course in chinese. degree requirements f4 f9 chin 316 asian urbanization through cinema term: spring, fall credits: 4 urbanization is one of the most prominent social-historical transformations that many asian countries have experienced since the beginning of the 20th century. today, the huge wave of rural-urban internal migration in asian countries represents one of the largest population flows in the world. this course looks into ongoing urbanization as well as related demographic, economic and socio-cultural changes occurring in a number of asian cities and how the challenges associated with such transformations are portrayed in contemporary cinema. the course looks into metropolises in mainland china, hong kong, taiwan, japan, and korea. in addition, it also explores diasporic asian spaces and the subsequent issues regarding race, immigration, identity and sense of place. it combines urban studies with film studies. taught in english. no prerequisites. this course also qualifies as an elective for urban studies, asian studies, film studies, and environmental studies. degree requirements f5 f9 chin 318 taste, culture and power: asia and global foodways term: spring credits: 4 as a basic human need, food has had a powerful influence on world civilization. this course uses asia as a hub to examine the historical and contemporary transcontinental and transnational flows of food and its significant impact on societies and cultures. it looks into how the migration of food, both out from asia and into asia throughout history, connected diﬀerent regions and cultures in the world and how this “inter-connectedness” has shaped human experiences, societies and cultures. the second half of the course pays special attention to the globalization of asian food and the making of ethnic cuisines in contemporary societies (especially in north america), and urge us to re-think issues regarding race, ethnicity, immigration, gender and identity in food culture and politics. all readings and discussion are in english. no prerequisites. degree requirements f3 f9 chin 320 contemporary chinese cinema term: spring, fall credits: 4 an introductory course on contemporary chinese cinema that combines film viewing with readings of film theory and criticism. the aim is to provide a window for students to glimpse the complexity of contemporary chinese culture. students will view selected chinese films produced in mainland china, taiwan, and hong kong from the 1980’s to the present and be required to read essays of critical studies which explore the interrelations of various issues in chinese society. the course is taught in english. chinese 320 is reserved for majors, who will do substantial portions of the work for the course in chinese. degree requirements f5 f9 chin 409 special topics term: spring, fall credits: 4 intensive study of some aspect or theme of chinese literature, culture or society in china. may be taken more than once for credit with new topics. prerequisites advanced chinese advanced chinese chin 485 senior seminar term: spring, fall credits: 2 or 4 this 4-credit course leads students to discuss a broad range of topics about contemporary china and to conduct a senior project of chinese studies. students will participate in class discussions on assigned readings and provide weekly progress reports of their senior research projects. under special circumstances, students may be allowed to take the senior seminar for 2 credits only. under its project-driven design, the 2-credit seminar gives each major student the opportunity to conduct a senior project of chinese studies. both the 2-credit and 4-credit courses conclude with the completion of the senior essay and a formal academic presentation given by each major student. comp 141 computer science i: programming fundamentals term: spring, fall credits: 4 an introduction to the fundamental concepts and practices of procedural programming. topics include data types, control structures,functions, arrays, files, and the mechanics of running, testing, and debugging. emphasis is placed on program design and problemsolving techniques. the course also includes an introduction to the historical and social context of computing and an overview of computer science as a discipline. degree requirements f6 comp 142 computer science ii: object- oriented programming term: spring, fall credits: 4 an introduction to the fundamental concepts and practices of object-oriented programming. the object-oriented programming paradigm is introduced, with a focus on the definition and use of classes as a basis for fundamental object- oriented program design. other topics include an overview of programming language principles, simple analysis of algorithms, basic searching and sorting techniques, and an introduction to software engineering issues. degree requirements f6 prerequisites computer science i: programming fundamentals comp 172 discrete structures for computer science term: spring, fall credits: 4 an introduction to and survey of the mathematics used in computer science including functions, relations, sets, counting, logic, boolean algebra, proof techniques, induction, recursion, computational complexity, and computability. other topics may be included as time permits. degree requirements f6 prerequisites computer science i: programming fundamentals comp 231 introduction to computer organization term: spring, fall credits: 4 a bottom-up exploration of the interaction between computer hardware and software. topics begin with an introduction to digital logic, and continue through elementary processor design, to assembly language, machine data representation, and computer arithmetic. other topics in contemporary computer architecture such as multicore processors and gpgpu’s may be discussed as time allows. projects include hardware and simulated digital circuits as well as programs in assembly language. prerequisites computer science i: programming fundamentals comp 241 computer science iii: data structures and algorithms term: spring, fall credits: 4 an introduction to the fundamental concepts of data structures and the algorithms that arise from them, using the object-oriented design paradigm. data structures covered include stacks, queues, linked lists, hash tables, trees, and graphs. other topics include an introduction to iterative and recursive algorithmic strategies and basic algorithm analysis. co-requisite: comp 172 (unless already taken) prerequisites computer science ii: object-oriented programming comp 251 introduction to computer systems term: fall credits: 4 this course is an introduction to system-aware computer programming. beginning with an overview of the fundamental elements and concepts that are common to all computer systems, including computer architecture, operating systems, compilers, and networks, students will learn how these aﬀect the performance and behavior of computer programs. additionally, students will learn a system-level programming language and set of tools for writing low-level programs at the operating system boundary. students completing comp251 will be prepared for advanced topics in systems, including operating system programming, parallel and distributed computing, and networking. topics include: memory management and organization; caching and the memory hierarchy; system calls; network programming and i/o; processes, threads, synchronization, and concurrency; performance analysis and measurement; and debugging. prerequisite: comp 142 comp 265 computer science professional development term: spring credits: 1 this course is designed to help students prepare for meaningful computer science-related internships and careers. key areas of focus are: (1) how to network eﬀectively using such tools as linkedin; (2)preparing for computer science interviews; (3) how to use rhodes resources for career planning; (4) creating eﬀective resumes; (5) how to leverage internships for career development. enrollment by permission of the instructor. prerequisites computer science iii: data structures and algorithms comp 315 computer networks term: spring credits: 4 an introduction to the structure and components of computer networks, packet switching, layered architectures, loosely coupled computer communication, network services and protocols, as well as the analysis of generic network models. topics include: network topologies, router architectures, network-aware applications, content dissemination systems, network security, and performance issues. prerequisites: comp 231 and comp 241 comp 320 computer graphics term: spring credits: 4 coverage of the basic concepts of 2d and 3d graphics, including an overview of graphics hardware, use of a graphics application programming interface, user interface design, techniques for computer animation, and graphical algorithms such as geometric transformations, clipping, windowing, hidden surface removal, and raster graphics techniques for the representation of curves, surfaces, and solids. /uni00a0 prerequisites computer science iii: data structures and algorithms comp 325 graphics, virtual environments, and human computer interaction term: spring credits: 4 an introduction to the basics of 3d computer graphics, virtual environments (ves), and human- computer interaction (hci). fundamental graphics topics include ray-tracing, 3d modeling, animation, lighting, rendering, cameras, and more./uni00a0 topics will also include how to interact with and experience a 3d model using the input and output devices that are typically found in a ve system (like the oculus rift)./uni00a0 this project-based course will focus on using hardware and creating software for ve applications with fundamental hci principles in mind./uni00a0 prerequisite: comp 241 comp 330 operating systems term: spring, fall credits: 4 an introduction to the fundamentals of operating systems design and implementation. topics include the process model and implementation of processes, an overview of the major components of a modern operating system, mutual exclusion and interprocess synchronization, a survey of scheduling algorithms, memory management techniques, and file systems. prerequisites introduction to computer systems comp 340 databases term: spring, fall credits: 4 an introduction to the design and use of database systems, as well as the key issues in building such systems. topics include the relational model, logical database design, query languages, and database implementation issues such as storage and indexing, query processing and optimization, concurrency control, and transaction management. in addition to traditional database topics, this course provides an introduction to key technologies for managing and exchanging data on the world wide web. prerequisites introduction to computer systems comp 342 bioinformatics term: spring credits: 4 this course is an introduction to the fields of bioinformatics and computational biology, with a central focus on algorithms and their application to a diverse set of computational problems in molecular biology. fundamental concepts from computer science such as greedy algorithms, dynamic programming, recursion, and asymptotic notation will be taught within the context of motivating problems drawn from contemporary biology. example biological topics include sequence alignment, motif finding, gene rearrangement, dna sequencing, phylogeny, and gene expression analysis. /uni00a0 prerequisites computer science iii: data structures and algorithms comp 345 data mining term: fall credits: 4 an introduction to data mining and knowledge discovery. data mining concerns itself with the goal of getting a computer to learn or discover patterns, especially those found within large datasets. students will be introduced to various models and learn how to apply them in practice. topics include classification, clustering, association rules, and recommender systems. prerequisites computer science iii: data structures and algorithms comp 350 theory of computation term: spring credits: 4 a study of theoretical models for computing. the hierarchy of finite state machines, pushdown machines, context free grammars, and turing machines will be analyzed, along with their variations. the basic concepts of decidability, complexity theory, and np-complete problems will be introduced. (course oﬀered in alternate years; scheduled for 2016-2017.) prerequisites discrete structures for computer science comp 355 advanced algorithms term: spring credits: 4 an in-depth study of the design and analysis of advanced algorithms, including the performance tradeoﬀs and resources required by various algorithmic implementations. major classes of computational problems will be identified and explored. advanced data structures and approximation heuristics are introduced as required for solution design. topics vary depending on the specific problems covered but will include the master theorem, dynamic programming, divide- and-conquer and greedy algorithms./uni00a0 prerequisites discrete structures for computer science computer science iii: data structures and algorithms comp 360 programming languages term: spring, fall credits: 4 a wide-ranging and in-depth coverage of fundamental programming language concepts, presenting design issues of the various language constructs, and examining the design choices for these constructs in a range of the most popular contemporary programming languages. language design alternatives are examined and critiqued. methods of syntax description, common approaches to describing the semantics of programming languages, and various implementation approaches are covered. prerequisites computer science iii: data structures and algorithms introduction to computer systems comp 365 software engineering term: spring credits: 4 the software systems we often find the most useful and magical are also the largest and most complex to build and understand. in order for these systems to be reliable, maintainable, and secure, they must be built according to disciplined and well-founded methods. this course examines these methods—both in the large (defining requirements, system design, architecture patterns, software process, etc.) and in the small (version control, testing, benchmarking, code review, etc.). at the same time, students will engage in the construction of a large software system or feature. /uni00a0 prerequisites computer science iii: data structures and algorithms comp 370 human-robot interaction term: spring credits: 4 this course focuses on the emerging field of human-robot interaction, bringing together research and application of methodology from robotics, human factors, human-computer interaction, interaction design, cognitive psychology, education, and other fields to enable robots to have more natural and more rewarding interactions with humans throughout their spheres of functioning. this course is a combination of state-of-art reading and discussions, focused exercises and problem solving sessions in human-robot interaction, and a group project that includes the design, development, and evaluation of a human-robot interaction system. prerequisites computer science iii: data structures and algorithms comp 372 artificial intelligence term: spring, fall credits: 4 an introduction to the basic knowledge representation, problem solving, and learning methods of artificial intelligence (ai). students study the core algorithms and data structures used in ai, abstract real problems into the prototypical tasks that have been studied in ai, and learn to map between abstract tasks and the basic ai techniques that address them. prerequisites computer science iii: data structures and algorithms comp 375 machine learning term: spring credits: 4 machine learning is the practice of programming computers to learn and improve through experience, and it is becoming pervasive in technology and science. this course will cover the mathematical underpinnings, algorithms, and practices that enable a computer to learn. topics will include supervised learning, unsupervised learning, and the evaluation of learning algorithms. students will write computer programs and apply course skills to solve real-world prediction and pattern recognition problems. prerequisites: comp 241 and math 112 or math 115 or math 116 comp 380 parallel systems credits: 4 an introduction to concurrent programming models and parallel computer architectures. students will learn the basic techniques of parallel program design, implementation, and performance analysis. topics include shared-memory and distributed-memory systems, parallel and distributed algorithms, and high-performance computing. prerequisites introduction to computer systems comp 385 distributed systems term: fall credits: 4 an introduction to modern distributed systems and how such systems enable the construction of large-scale and highly-available software. students will explore foundational topics (e.g., consensus, consistency, and fault tolerance) as well as applied (distributed file systems, cloud computing, data processing and analytics systems). prerequisites introduction to computer systems comp 451 research in computer science term: spring, fall credits: 1-4 qualified students may conduct original research in computer science under the supervision of a faculty mentor. a student may use four combined credits from 451 and 452 towards one upper-level major elective. students should expect to commit at least three hours per week per credit. comp 452 research in computer science term: spring, fall credits: 1-4 qualified students may conduct original research in computer science under the supervision of a faculty mentor. a student may use four combined credits from 451 and 452 towards one upper-level major elective. students should expect to commit at least three hours per week per credit. comp 455 readings in computer science term: spring, fall credits: 1-4 this course allows students to do advanced work not provided for in the regular courses. its content will be fixed after consultation with the student and in accord with his or her particular interests. comp 456 readings in computer science term: spring, fall credits: 1-4 this course allows students to do advanced work not provided for in the regular courses. its content will be fixed after consultation with the student and in accord with his or her particular interests. comp 460 internship term: spring, fall credits: 1-4 internships in computer science, which are normally arranged by the director of career services, permit a qualified student to receive academic credit for oﬀ-campus work experience. upon completion of the internship, the student makes written and oral reports focusing on an integration of the student’s academic work and the internship project. normally the course will be taken on a pass/fail basis; it does not count toward the requirements for the major or minor except with special approval of the department. interested students should contact the chair of the department and the director of career services. degree requirements f11 comp 461 professional development for paid internship term: summer credits: 1 the purpose of this course is to allow students to complete their f11 while simultaneously completing a paid computer science internship. /uni00a0/uni00a0the idea of this class is analogous to comp460 where students work for academic credit and complete an f11 component through rhodes. /uni00a0/uni00a0this course carries one hour of credit that is awarded on a pass/fail basis and requires that a student be involved in an oﬀ-campus paid internship. degree requirements f11 comp 465 special topics in computer science term: spring, fall credits: 4 an occasional oﬀering of topics not covered in the existing computer science courses. examples of topics include data mining, humancomputer interfaces, virtual environments, bioinformatics, parallel systems, and compilers. comp 485 senior software engineering term: spring, fall credits: 5 the software systems we often find the most useful and magical are also the largest and most complex to build and understand. in order for these systems to be reliable, maintainable, and secure, they must be built according to disciplined and well-founded methods. this course examines these methods—both in the large (defining requirements, system design, architecture patterns, software process, etc.) and in the small (version control, testing, benchmarking, code review, etc.). at the same time, students will engage in the construction of a large software system or feature. prerequisites computer science iii: data structures and algorithms comp 486 senior seminar term: spring, fall credits: 4 students embark on a semester long group project. each team will produce a robust, scalable, and maintainable large-scale piece of software based on the project proposal completed in comp 485. in addition to collaborating on a specific project, students present material on a wide range of software development topics, including software engineering, professional ethics, and current trends in languages, tools, and methodologies. as a senior seminar, the course has a strong problem-solving focus, encourages student participation and leadership, develops communication skills, and stresses integration of the student's full undergraduate experience. /uni00a0 prerequisites computer science iii: data structures and algorithms comp 495 honors tutorial in computer science term: spring, fall credits: 4-8 /uni00a0 /uni00a0 comp 496 honors tutorial in computer science term: spring, fall credits: 4-8 /uni00a0 /uni00a0 econ 100 introduction to economics term: spring, fall credits: 4 a survey of economic analysis and institutions combining economic theory with a discussion of applications to the u. s. economic system for majors and non-majors. the course will include an introduction to both microeconomics and macroeconomics. microeconomics: study of the behavior of consumers and firms in competitive and noncompetitive markets, and the consequences of this behavior for resource allocation and income distribution. consideration of government’s role in competitive and noncompetitive markets. macroeconomics: study of the determination of the domestic levels of income, output, employment and prices; study of international trade and finance. consideration of economic growth and international trade. degree requirements f8 econ 201 intermediate microeconomics term: spring, fall credits: 4 development and practical application of tools of supply, demand, cost, capital, and profit analysis, including quantitative models, to decision-making in a business enterprise. additionally, a study of the problems of economic measurement and forecasting methods, business planning, product strategy, and location analysis. prerequisites introduction to economics econ 202 intermediate macroeconomics term: spring, fall credits: 4 a study of the determinants of national income, its fluctuation and growth. contemporary fiscal and monetary theories are analyzed in connection with the causes and control of economic growth and fluctuations. /uni00a0 degree requirements f8 prerequisites introduction to economics econ 250 readings in economics term: spring, fall credits: 1-2 content of the course varies with instructor. the course may be repeated for credit as long as topics covered are diﬀerent. prerequisites introduction to economics econ 265 topics in economics term: spring, fall credits: 1-4 content of the course varies with instructor. the course may be repeated for credit as long as topics covered are diﬀerent. prerequisites introduction to economics econ 290 statistical analysis for economics and business term: spring, fall credits: 4 drawing conclusions from limited information is a common characteristic of decision making in economics and business. although this course is designed to introduce the student to basic concepts of probability and statistics as applied to topics in economics and business, emphasis will be placed on the use of statistical inference to reduce the impact of limited information or uncertainty in decision-making. topics will include descriptive statistical measures, probability, random variables, probability distributions, sampling distributions, point and interval estimation, hypothesis testing, time series analysis, regression and the use of index numbers. degree requirements f6 econ 305 public economics term: spring credits: 4 this course examines the role of the public sector in the economy. students will learn about the theoretical motivations for and eﬀects of government involvement in the economy as well as the empirical evidence regarding the consequences of such intervention. students of economics should expect that rational economic agents will respond predictably to changes in incentives. this course will explore the incentive structure implied by government involvement in the economy and the predicted behavioral responses of individuals and firms. the structure of the major revenue raising (i.e., taxation) and expenditure operations of the government will be analyzed using microeconomic tools to determine their allocative and distributive eﬀects. prerequisites intermediate microeconomics econ 308 industrial organization term: spring credits: 4 in industrial organization we study the relation between industry structure and market outcomes. basic microeconomics teaches us that competitive markets—characterized, among other things, by the presence of many firms—yield economic eﬃcient outcomes. industrial organization, on the other hand, focuses on the potential departures from eﬃciency in markets with fewer than many participants. firms’ behavior and interaction, and, therefore, the achieved level of eﬃciency in such markets depend on a number of parameters and the aim of this course is to investigate some of these possibilities. topics covered include non-uniform pricing by a monopoly, quantity and price competition, cartels and collusion, product diﬀerentiation, firm entry and exit, and matching markets. /uni00a0 prerequisites introduction to economics econ 310 international trade and policy term: fall credits: 4 the study of the determinants of comparative advantage and international trade. the course will include analysis of the winners and losers from trade and the resulting trade policies such as protectionism or export promotion. the course will also cover the movement of factors across borders, specifically immigration and international investment, and the policy restricting and promoting factor flows. prerequisites introduction to economics econ 311 international financial economics term: spring credits: 2 this course will study balance of payment flows and exchange rate determination, with an introduction to international financial markets and instruments. it will cover economic policy under fixed and flexible exchange rates, in addition to exchange rate regime choice, balance of payments crises, and speculative attacks. prerequisites introduction to economics econ 312 economic development term: spring credits: 4 this course addresses the scope and causes of international inequality, particularly the nature of the economic problems facing the world’s poorer countries, with emphasis on the african, south american, and asian continents. theories of growth and inequality, uneven development, and the roles of schooling, foreign trade, agriculture, manufacturing, fertility, migration, finance, and the environment in the development process will be considered. the goals of the course are to teach students how to model and use the models to formulate policy in the unique contexts of developing economies. (course not oﬀered 2015-16.) degree requirements f9 prerequisites introduction to economics econ 317 money and banking term: fall credits: 2 an analysis of the relationship between money and economic activity with an emphasis on monetary theory, commercial banking, financial markets and interest rates. special attention is given to international financial markets. the interface of monetary policy, fiscal policy and debt management is also considered. (course oﬀered in alternate years.) prerequisites introduction to economics econ 318 economics of crime and corruption credits: 2 this course explores the contributions of economics to the understanding of crime and corruption. the perspectives and quantitative analytical techniques of economics are used to examine important issues concerning crime and corruption. topics may include: rationalchoice criminology; development and corruption; measuring the costs of crime and corruption; organized crime, white-collar crime; environmental crime; illicit drugs; human traﬃcking; gender and race issues concerning crime, and special topics selected by the instructor. (course oﬀered in alternate years.) prerequisites introduction to economics econ 319 economics of income inequality term: fall credits: 2 this course will use macro and microeconomic models to explore the issues surrounding income inequality in the united states. topics discussed will include the measurement and trends in income inequality, reasons income inequality is considered problematic by many, its causes, and the many policies intended to address income inequality, starting with johnson’s “war on poverty” through to current policy eﬀorts. /uni00a0 prerequisites introduction to economics econ 323 classical and marxian political economy term: spring credits: 4 the writings of adam smith and of karl marx had a profound and lasting influence on the way people think about the world. the industrial revolution that took place in the interim between the publications of the works of these two thinkers literally changed the world. this course focuses on the most important works of smith and marx and on the economic events taking place in eighteenth and nineteenth century england that continue to aﬀect the way we think and live. the works of other classical economists are also examined. (course oﬀered in alternate years.) degree requirements f2 f3 prerequisites intermediate microeconomics intermediate macroeconomics econ 331 labor economics term: fall credits: 4 this course covers standard labor economic theory. topics include market equilibria, the demand for and supply of labor (including human fertility, human capital, hours of work, and labor force participation), wage levels and diﬀerences (including discrimination) and unions and government as labor market forces. (course oﬀered in alternate years.) prerequisites introduction to economics econ 338 european economic history term: fall credits: 4 this course examines the economic transformation that took place in europe over the long 19th century, with a major focus on great britain's early exceptionalism and the diﬀerent path taken by continental followers like germany. topics to be covered included growth theory; the integration of national and international markets; agricultural and industrial revolutions; changes in mortality, fertility, and urbanization; and the evolution of financial systems, business organizations, and social welfare. degree requirements f2i f3 prerequisites introduction to economics econ 339 u.s. economic history credits: 4 this course uses the tools of economic analysis to explore the long-run determinants of economic growth and the implications for policymaking today. focus is on long-run economic change and the development of the american economy. specific topics include the history and development of economic institutions, the american colonial experience, early american industrialization, slavery, the progressive era, the great depression, and the southern economy. (course oﬀered in alternate years.) degree requirements f2 f3 prerequisites introduction to economics econ 343 family economics term: fall credits: 4 this course applies modern economic tools to analyze decisions regarding dating, marriage, divorce, and fertility. it also addresses public policies that impact the family, the determinants of women's labor force participation and the gender wage gap. empirical studies that test the validity of the theories of family behavior will be examined. prerequisites intermediate microeconomics econ 345 economics of sports credits: 4 this applied economics course explores various aspects of the economics of sports and sports leagues, with a major focus on empirical analysis. we will consider a number of topics, including: 1) the business and economics of professional team sports and sports broadcasting, 2) analysis of leagues’ competitive balance policies, 3) player relations issues including analysis of the determinants of players’ salaries, 4) the public finance aspects of professional sports teams and stadium financing, and relevant issues in collegiate sports. (course oﬀered in alternate years.) prerequisites introduction to economics econ 349 environmental and natural resource economics credits: 4 this course applies economic theory to environmental issues and policy. this course analyzes the operation (and failure) of markets for resources and environmental goods, and the policies governments use to intervene in such markets. (course oﬀered in alternate years.) prerequisites introduction to economics econ 357 economics of risk, uncertainty, and information term: spring credits: 4 economic agents often act in face of uncertain conditions. an individual, for example, can only assess the probability of a loss when deciding to purchase an insurance policy. similarly, a firm does not know the productivity of potential employees; and, to keep the list short, an auctioneer usually does not know how much bidders value the object for sale. despite the intrinsic uncertainty, the above (as well as related) problems are amenable to economic analysis and in this course we will learn the tools that make that analysis possible. the careful application of these tools will help students build important analytical skills, frequently demanded from modern economists. prerequisites introduction to economics intermediate microeconomics econ 377 economics of education term: spring credits: 2 this course uses microeconomic foundations and econometric tools to explore topics related to the education system and education policy. education issues will be examined from both a theoretical and an empirical framework. course topics include human capital theory, signaling, measuring the returns to education, teachers and labor markets, education inputs, peer eﬀects, and school reform policies. (course oﬀered in alternate years.) prerequisites introduction to economics econ 407 game theory term: fall credits: 4 the issues of strategic interaction and information asymmetry have come to the forefront of virtually every functional field in economics and business. this course represents an introduction to how game theory is used as a tool to model and to solve questions of strategy as they arise in a variety of economic situations and events in the world. modeling topics to be covered are strategic and extensive form games, bayesian decision-making, and evolutionary stability. possible applications include bargaining, international collective action, the credibility of macroeconomic policy, learning, and signaling. prerequisites intermediate microeconomics applied calculus econ 412 data management and analysis credits: 4 this class is an in-depth study of the tools economists use to collect, manage and analyze large datasets. students will learn to use advanced data management functions in stata, r, and other software packages. we will cover various techniques used to “scrape” and save data from online sources. the course will introduce a number of methods used to access and analyze data sources regardless of format (.txt, .csv, .xls, .accdb, .pdf, .html etc..). students will learn how to write custom functions in stata ado files and vba applications in microsoft oﬃce. prerequisites statistical analysis for economics and business econ 420 econometrics term: spring, fall credits: 4 economic theory is mainly concerned with relations among variables. econometrics is concerned with testing the theoretical propositions embodied in these relations to show how the economy operates, and with making predictions about the future. topics covered in this course include the general linear model, qualitative variables and time series analysis. econ 440 advanced econometrics term: spring credits: 4 this course builds on the fundamental estimation techniques learned in economics 420 and introduces advanced econometric models, particularly for the analysis of panel data. topics include fixed eﬀects and random eﬀects, as well as first diﬀerencing and diﬀerence-indiﬀerence models. the use of instrumental variables and two stage least squares estimation will also be examined as a method of addressing potential endogeneity problems. (course oﬀered in alternate years.) prerequisites econometrics econ 460 internship term: spring, fall credits: 1-4 directed internship in law, business, government, economic consulting, or the non-profit sector. to enroll, students must be approved in advance by the instructor and the oﬃce of career services. no more than 8 internship credits may be allowed to count toward the credits required for graduation. student interns are expected to keep a regular log of their activities and write two papers reflecting on their experience. does not fulfill the requirements of the major or minor. taken pass-fail only. prerequisites/corequisites: introduction to economics, intermediate microeconomics, intermediate macroeconomics, statistical analysis for economics and business, or completion of the requirements for a minor in economics. degree requirements f11 econ 461 internships term: spring, fall, summer credits: 1 directed internship in law, business, government, or the non-profit sector. to enroll, students must be approved in advance by the instructor and the oﬃce of career services. (does not fulfill the requirements of the major or minor. taken pass-fail only.) econ 465 advanced topics in economics term: spring, fall credits: 1-4 content of the course varies with instructor. the course may be repeated for credit as long as topics covered are diﬀerent. prerequisites introduction to economics econ 486 senior seminar in economics term: spring, fall credits: 4 senior seminar oﬀers students the opportunity to integrate and extend their understanding of the various areas of economic theory and policy studied as an economic major. the focus of the seminar is development of the ability to critically appraise analytical models’ appropriateness and usefulness. students will discuss, present and defend economic policy and research. student must have senior status to enroll. prerequisites intermediate microeconomics intermediate macroeconomics econometrics econ 495 honors tutorial term: fall credits: 4 open to candidates for honors in economics. econ 496 honors tutorial term: spring credits: 4 open to candidates for honors in economics. educ 160 teaching english as a foreign language term: fall credits: 2 this course is the first of a two course sequence to/uni00a0prepare future teachers of english as a foreign language to teach english to non-native speakers of english in cross-cultural settings, either in the us or abroad./uni00a0 degree requirements f11 educ 161 teaching english as a foreign language term: spring credits: 2 this course is the 2nd course of a two course sequence to/uni00a0prepare future teachers of english as a foreign language to teach english to non-native speakers of english in cross-cultural settings, either in the us or abroad./uni00a0 degree requirements f11 prerequisites teaching english as a foreign language educ 201 foundations of education term: spring, fall credits: 4 foundations of education serves as an introduction to the social, cultural, and philosophical foundations of education in the united states. it is designed to cover elements of the history, anthropology, philosophy, sociology, and theory of educational practice in this country, and with the enduring questions, debates, and conflicts that abound regarding teaching, learning, schools, and society. degree requirements f8 educ 220 urban education term: spring, fall credits: 4 urban education focuses on the contemporary practices and theories of teaching and learning in densely populated high poverty areas and the particular challenges and opportunities such work presents. students gain first-hand experiences tutoring and observing in urban k-12 classrooms, apply theory to their work in schools and gain a better understanding of the history and present contexts of race, poverty, and resilience in urban communities and schools. degree requirements f9 prerequisites foundations of education educ 222 educational psychology term: spring credits: 4 this course explores how students learn and how educational environments can be positive, aﬃrming learning communities. course topics include learning theory, learning sciences, instructional design, and learner diversity. additionally, the course explores how to create educational environments responsive to common psychological stressors that impact learning such as anxiety and trauma. educ 225 african american educational experiences in the united states credits: 4 this course provides a historical and social overview of the experiences of african americans in education both historically and currently. the course includes historical perspectives such as antebellum, postbellum, jim crowe, and the 1950s/60s civil rights movement. the course will also delve into the eﬀects of present day educational policy and practices that eﬀect african american students in us schools with a focus on the structural factors and social contexts that influence african american schooling. this course will also explore educational reforms and pedagogical approaches aimed at improving educational outcomes for african american youth. /uni00a0 degree requirements f9 prerequisites foundations of education educ 230 history of us education term: spring credits: 4 this course serves as an introduction to the historical study of education and schooling in the united states. focusing especially on the history of curriculum, students will work with primary and secondary sources to understand the competing aims for education in the united states, the role(s) that politics plays in what is taught and learned in schools, and the cyclical nature of educational reform. finally, the course works to contextualize the history of education with special attention to the ways schools have been used to oppress marginalized people, including those who work in them. students will gain a deeper understanding of the complex and fraught history of teaching and learning in the u.s. as they wrestle with their own historical inquiries alongside course texts and themes. educ 240 urban education policy term: spring credits: 4 this class addresses the following essential questions: what counts as education policy? why does education policy matter? how is education policy made and influenced? and, what are key education policy issues today? students learn about levels of education policy, key federal policies aﬀecting the current education landscape, the policy process, and current policy debates. through this class, students develop the skills to follow education policy news, critically analyze education policy, and take action to influence education policy. degree requirements f8 teaching/learning elective educ 265 special topics in education credits: 4 content may vary from year to year with the instructor. course may be repeated as long as topics are diﬀerent. recent topics have included the essaying in education and social change and digital media. prerequisites foundations of education educ 270 philosophy of education term: spring credits: 4 this course focuses on the philosophical foundations of education in the united states. students engage questions of the purposes of education from pragmatist, feminist, and critical pedagogical perspectives to develop their own philosophy of teaching and learning. special attention is given to philosophical questions of social change and consciousness raising that impact work in schools and classrooms, as well as the ways identity shapes and informs both educational theory and practice. /uni00a0 educ 300 educational technologies term: spring, fall credits: 4 this course examines the history, contemporary understanding, social impacts of, and ethical issues surrounding educational technology. the course also introduces students to research from the learning sciences that supports improved student learning outcomes, exploring how to implement this information into classroom use of educational technology. students will learn about current educational technologies and practice integrating these tools into their own lesson plans. finally, students will equip themselves to prepare k-12 students to develop information literacy and habits of digital safety. /uni00a0 prerequisites foundations of education educ 310 reading and writing in urban schools term: fall credits: 4 what counts as literacy and what does it mean to become literate? this course will examine these questions through multiple disciplinary lenses, considering how definitions of literacy and illiteracy are tied to issues of equity and justice. it will explore how language and literacy intersect, as well as the multiple ways literacy is practiced across contexts. it will also compare theories and related research on how literacy develops across the lifespan. these theoretically-rooted examinations will then be used to guide our considerations of how literacy is taught and learned in k-12 classrooms. /uni00a0 degree requirements f2i prerequisites foundations of education educ 320 race, class, gender, and sexuality in education term: spring, fall credits: 4 race, class, gender, and sexuality in education explores and investigates the various ways that race, class, gender, and sexuality interact and intersect in the context(s) of education. it is designed to cover aspects of each of these social categories from various perspectives in order to provide for deep and complex interpretations of social phenomena as they manifest in educational settings and how these social categoreis impact work inside and outside of schools. degree requirements f9 prerequisites foundations of education educ 330 education and immigration credits: 4 in this course, students explore current immigration issues and how these issues impact the educational experiences of immigrant students and their families, particularly in us public schools. students will read texts and engage with multimedia resources about citizenship and educational access, language education and language policies, refugee education and education for students with interrupted formal education, and engage current topics in immigration. in this course, students will work with community partners in memphis who work to meet the unique needs of immigrant children at school. students will use their academic readings and interactions with community partners to consider multiple perspectives, develop informed views on these topics, communicate their views in a way that exemplifies civil discourse, and engage with public institutions that address these issues. /uni00a0 degree requirements f9 f11 educ 355 principles of curriculum and instruction term: spring credits: 4 this course focuses on the development of the pedagogical knowledge, skills, and dispositions appropriate for successful teaching in urban schools and provides opportunities for teacher candidates to apply the principles learned in the course in practice. humanistic pedagogies such as multicultural education, culturally responsive teaching, sheltered english instruction, and teaching for social justice will be a major focus of the course. special attention is given to the ten core principles developed by the interstate new teacher assessment and support consortium (intasc). co-requisite: educ 360, clinical field experience prerequisites foundations of education educ 360 clinical field experience term: spring, fall credits: 1-4 field experiences are designed to give students guided and controlled experiences with professionals in elementary and secondary schools, and in some cases with community partners. they are also designed to expand and challenge personal and professional attitudes while providing personal and professional growth opportunities for prospective teachers and other professionals in education. observation and first-hand experience within p-12 settings provide candidates with information and tools that complement classroom study and assist in the development of pedagogical skills, knowledge, and dispositions necessary for eﬀective teaching. secondary licensure candidates will complete three one-credit field placements; elementary candidates will complete four one-credit placements. all field experiences for licensure candidates will occur in shelby county schools (scs). licensure students enrolled for one credit will complete a minimum of 60 hours in an assigned scs classroom. students in the non-licensure tracks will complete three one-credit field placements; at least one of these must be in a school. field placements must be requested and approved by the director of licensure and field placements and finalized in the semester prior to enrollment./uni00a0 application deadlines are posted on the educational studies website. a minimum grade of b is required for students seeking licensure./uni00a0 students who earn lower than a b in this course must repeat the course. degree requirements f11 prerequisites foundations of education principles of curriculum and instruction educ 370 elementary literacies term: spring, fall credits: 4 this course, primarily designed for educational studies majors pursuing elementary teacher licensure, will explore, enact, and critically examine diﬀerent approaches to the teaching and learning of literacy within elementary classrooms (k-5). through reading and discussion of both theory and empirical research on literacy pedagogy, students will develop their understandings of the varied approaches to the teaching of elementary literacy while considering the historical and political roots of these approaches. co-requisite: educ 360 /uni00a0 prerequisites foundations of education educ 395 qualitative methods in the social sciences term: spring credits: 4 this course is designed to introduce students to qualitative research and its uses in the social sciences. it will explore the aims and purposes of qualitative research, including an introduction to the epistemological, ontological, and methodological diﬀerences between qualitative and quantitative research. qualitative methods of data collection and analysis will be a central focus of the course. students will learn about qualitative methods of data collection - especially interviews and observation - through both a review of existing scholarship on the topic and through assignments where students collect and analyze data through these methods. students will also be introduced to methods for qualitative data analysis, including qualitative coding, grounded theory, and discourse analysis. prerequisites: educ 201, urbn 201, or permission of the instructor educ 450 edtpa preparation term: spring credits: 1 the edtpa is a national, subject-specific portfolio-based assessment of teaching performance adopted by the state of tennessee for teacher licensure. this course prepares students to produce an edtpa portfolio that exceeds the state’s requirement of a passing score of 42. co-requisite: educ 360, clinical field experience /uni00a0 educ 451 directed research term: spring, fall credits: 2 or 4 students enrolling in the directed research course propose a research topic to the education program committee and once approved, conduct an independent research on the topic. all directed research projects must be supervised by a faculty member. requirements will vary as to the selected topic and will include: regular meetings with the faculty member, scholarly research, and a final written report or curriculum project. an oral presentation will be made to an appropriate group or class. prerequisite; one additional educational studies course degree requirements f11 prerequisites foundations of education educ 460 internship in education term: spring, fall credits: 1 - 4 the internship in education is arranged on an individual basis and is designed to meet the identified needs and/or interests of the student. students will complete their internships in local schools or educational settings and will be supervised by the course instructor and an oﬀ-campus supervisor or clinical educator. only 4 internship credits may count toward the major or minor./uni00a0 students will complete a minimum of 40 hours of field experience per credit earned./uni00a0 all internships must be arranged by the director of teacher licensure and field placements in the semester prior to start date./uni00a0 application deadlines are posted on the educational studies website./uni00a0 students will earn grades in this course. degree requirements f11 prerequisites foundations of education principles of curriculum and instruction educ 485 senior seminar term: spring credits: 4 senior seminar is a topic-based advanced seminar for educational studies majors and minors in their final semester of coursework. the course involves students actively learning, teaching, researching, and engaging in independent topics of special interest, in consultation with the professor, as they relate to educational policy and practice based around a central shared theme. examples include federal education policy, culturally relevant pedagogy, multicultural education, and critical pedagogy. pre-requisites: educ 201, educational studies major or minor; senior standing or permission of instructor. educ 499 clinical student teaching term: spring, fall credits: 16 in order to obtain a teaching license in the state of tennessee, all teacher licensure candidates at rhodes are required to complete a semester of student teaching. the state requires that all candidates complete/uni00a0two distinct 8 week placements in one or two shelby county schools. candidates will begin their student teaching on the first day of the scs calendar year. twice a month, candidates will meet to discuss their experiences and practices with a rhodes faculty member. prior to student teaching, all candidates will be fingerprinted and must pass a criminal background check. candidates are also expected to attend all orientations hosted by scs or and rhodes. clinical student teaching applications can be found on the program website and must be submitted by the designated deadline. it is highly recommended that candidates meet with the director of teacher licensure and field placements prior to submitting the application. a minimum grade of b is required of all licensure candidates. candidates who earn lower than a b in this course must repeat the course. prerequisite: completion of all teaching licensure coursework educ 500 educational technologies term: summer credits: 4 this course focuses on the ways in which technology can be integrated into the 21st century classroom environment. specifically, we will examine and practice implementing the ways in which technology can be used to eﬀectively teach and communicate within and beyond the classroom and how technology can be integrated into assignments that extend beyond the classroom to facilitate student learning and engagement. in doing so, teacher candidates will gain experience integrating technology within lesson plans as a means for satisfying student learning outcomes. finally, candidates will develop an understanding of technology-based ethical standards and good citizenship practices that can be communicated to students and peers. educ 501 foundations of urban education term: summer credits: 4 foundations of urban education serves as an introduction to the social, cultural, and philosophical foundations of urban education in the united states. it is designed to cover elements of the history, anthropology, philosophy, sociology, and theory of educational practice in this country, and with the enduring questions, debates, and conflicts that abound regarding teaching, learning, schools, and society. educ 510 reading and literacies in content areas term: fall credits: 4 all teachers are reading teachers. that is, reading and literacy more broadly are essential skills for all academic and intellectual activity. this course takes a broad view of literacy, and aims to equip teacher candidates with a wealth of theories and resources for engaging students in complex analysis across subject matter areas. special attention is given to applications of critical theories of literacy in urban school contexts. educ 511 understanding educational research and statistics term: fall credits: 4 this course is designed to provide you with a basic understanding of the statistical procedures and other methods used in educational research and to introduce you to the current trends being used to measure student achievement and teacher eﬀectiveness. portions of the course will require that you compute statistics by hand and use a statistical software package. for all analyses; however, there will be an emphasis on the interpretation of the statistical results rather than on rote memorization of mathematical formulas. successful students will learn both descriptive and inferential statistics, along with a host of qualitative and interpretive approaches to educational research in order to craft their own research proposal. additionally, a portion of the course is devoted to understanding the instruments, methods, and metrics that are used in the state of tennessee to measure student achievement and to evaluate teacher eﬀectiveness. /uni00a0 educ 520 urban education, culture, identity term: spring credits: 4 this course explores and investigates the various ways that culture, identity, race, class, gender, and sexuality interact and intersect in the context(s) of urban education. it is designed to cover aspects of each of these social categories from various perspectives in order to provide for deep and complex interpretations of social phenomena as they manifest in educational settings and how these social categories impact work inside and outside of schools. educ 550 edtpa preparation term: spring credits: 1 the edtpa is a national, subject-specific portfolio-based assessment of teaching performance adopted by the state of tennessee for teacher licensure. this course prepares students to produce an edtpa portfolio that exceeds the state’s requirement of a passing score of 42. /uni00a0 educ 555 curriculum and instruction in urban schools term: summer credits: 4 this course focuses on the development of the pedagogical knowledge, skills, and dispositions appropriate for successful teaching in urban schools and provides opportunities for teacher candidates to apply the principles learned in the course in practice. humanistic pedagogies such as multicultural education, culturally responsive teaching, sheltered english instruction, and teaching for social justice will be a major focus of the course. educ 560 methods-centric field experiences term: fall credits: 4 methods-centric field experiences pair teacher candidates with outstanding local urban educators in an intensive practicum experience wherein candidates observe, participate in, and develop their own lessons under the guidance of an exemplary master teacher./uni00a0 candidates complete 20 hours of field experiences each week, and meet one on one with their mentor teachers daily to discuss methodological choices and approaches to instruction./uni00a0all field experiences for licensure candidates will occur in shelby county schools (scs). field placements must be approved by the director of licensure and field placements. a minimum grade of b is required in this course. candidates who earn lower than a b must repeat the course, thus delaying licensure and the conferring of the degree. educ 585 capstone (with scholar-in-residence) term: summer credits: 4 the final capstone course, candidates work with a renowned scholar on subjects selected by the scholar in residence and work to make connections between their own projects, experiences in urban classrooms, and the scholarship of the researcher they are working with./uni00a0 the course concludes with a presentation of research findings and capstone projects, with comments and recommendations from the scholar in residence. educ 660 clinical practice/student teaching term: spring credits: 8 in order to obtain a teaching license in the state of tennessee, all teacher licensure candidates at rhodes are required to complete a semester of student teaching. the state requires that all candidates complete two distinct 8 week placements in one or two shelby county schools. students will begin their student teaching on the first day of the scs term in the spring. twice a month, candidates will meet to discuss their experiences and practices with a rhodes faculty member. prior to student teaching, all candidates will be fingerprinted and must pass a criminal background check. candidates are also expected to attend all orientations hosted by scs and rhodes. clinical student teaching applications can be found on the program website and must be submitted by the designated deadline. it is highly recommended that candidates meet with the director of teacher licensure and field placements prior to submitting the application. a minimum grade of b is required in this course. candidates who earn lower than a b must repeat the course, thus delaying licensure and the conferring of the degree. /uni00a0 prerequisites: completion of related coursework and educ 560. /uni00a0 /uni00a0 educ 684 thesis syllabus i term: spring credits: 2 this course is intended for master’s level students to create a master’s thesis project and to see it through to the first draft. in this semester, students will select and finalize a thesis committee, submit the thesis proposal, make all necessary revisions to the thesis proposal, and produce the first draft of the thesis. students will work one-on-one with their thesis advisor and the thesis coordinator to identify times that they will meet and create a plan for communication throughout the process of completing the master’s thesis. /uni00a0 educ 685 thesis syllabus ii term: summer credits: 2 this course is intended for master’s level students to create a master’s thesis project and to see it through to the first draft. in this semester, students will select and finalize a thesis committee, submit the thesis proposal, make all necessary revisions to the thesis proposal, and produce the first draft of the thesis. students will work one-on-one with their thesis advisor and the thesis coordinator to identify times that they will meet and create a plan for communication throughout the process of completing the master’s thesis. /uni00a0 prerequisites thesis syllabus i educ 686 master's thesis iii term: summer credits: 1 this course is intended for master’s level students to complete their master’s thesis project. in this session, students will defend their thesis before their thesis committee, and make any required revisions before submitting their final draft. students will work one-on-one with their thesis advisor and the thesis coordinator to identify times that they will meet and create a plan for communication throughout the process of completing the master’s thesis. prerequisites thesis syllabus i thesis syllabus ii engl 190 introductory topics in literature term: spring, fall credits: 4 an introduction to the process of reading critically and writing perceptively about literary works, through the exploration of specific topics or questions. topics for individual sections will vary, and topics for each upcoming semester can be found through bannerweb or the english department homepage. counts toward the english major. may not be repeated for credit. first-year and sophomore students only. degree requirements f2i f4 engl 191 golden age of piracy: histories, literature, legends, and myths credits: 4 the pirates who plundered the ships of the spanish main and cruised the coasts of africa and the americas both served and troubled conventional notions of race, gender, economics, law, and nationality in a period that saw the rise of empire and the atlantic slave trade, the american revolution, and the wars of the early nineteenth century. the usually criminal and always liminal status of those who decided to “go upon the account” has attracted the attention of numerous authors and filmmakers who have cast them as brave iconoclasts, romantic heroes, and heartless villains. this class will explore representations of seventeenth and eighteenth-century pirates from their time to our own. counts toward the english major. degree requirements f2i f4 engl 192 medieval frame tales and story collections term: spring credits: 4 the frame tale—that is, a framing narrative depicting a series of oral storytelling performances by the frame’s characters—was popular throughout the medieval period and includes such well- known works as the canterbury tales, the decameron, and arabian nights. this enormously flexible genre could encompass a vast range of story types, from saints lives and romances to beast fables and comic fabliaux. through these and other story collections, this course explores the compelling power of storytelling in the middle ages and oﬀers modern readers a rich and vibrant introduction to the diversity of the medieval world. all works are read in modern english translation. limited to first years and sophomores only. /uni00a0 degree requirements f2i f4 engl 204 introduction to screenwriting term: spring, fall credits: 4 an introduction to the basic three-act film structure. students will read and view various screenplays and films, and develop their own film treatment into a full-length script. engl 206 creative publishing: the southwestern review i term: fall credits: 2 this is the first semester of a two-semester sequence that combines literary study with a practicum in publishing the southwestern review, rhodes’s campus literary magazine. students will study the history of literary magazine publishing in the united states and conduct a survey of contemporary magazines and topics in literary publishing. building on this research, students will then produce the southwestern review, including reading submissions, editing and designing the magazine, developing publicity materials, and planning the campus launch. this course meets once a week. it is expected that students enrolled in this class will also take engl 207 in the spring semester, which will be oﬀered in the same scheduling block as the fall. /uni00a0 engl 207 creative publishing: the southwestern review ii term: spring credits: 2 this is the second semester of a two-semester sequence that combines literary study with a practicum in publishing the southwestern review, rhodes’s campus literary magazine. after studying literary magazine publishing in the united states and various topics in literary publishing, students will producethe southwestern review, including reading submissions, editing and designing the magazine, developing publicity materials, and planning the campus launch. this course meets once a week. /uni00a0 prerequisites creative publishing: the southwestern review i engl 210 introduction to creative writing term: fall credits: 4 this multi-genre course focuses on the craft of creative writing in a workshop setting. students will read a variety of texts by contemporary writers, and they will produce their own works of poetry, fiction, and creative nonfiction. /uni00a0 /uni00a0 /uni00a0 engl 218 myths and sagas of medieval iceland credits: 4 this course focuses on the rich storytelling traditions of medieval iceland. the endlessly diverse sagas and eddas introduce readers not only to feats of dragon-slaying heroes, disputes among old norse gods, fantastical tales of giants and valkyries, and legendary explorations as far as north america but also to the more everyday aspects of medieval life—foodways, material culture, healing practices, gender roles, laws and customs, and settlement patterns across iceland’s dangerous and beautiful landscape. alongside our study of these icelandic texts, we will examine global perceptions of vikings in other parts of the medieval world as well as post-medieval lives of these enduring stories. degree requirements f2i f4 engl 219 the global middle ages term: spring, fall credits: 4 this course explores a wide range of medieval literature (all in modern english translation) from around the world. the focus will be “global” in two senses: our texts take readers on journeys with medieval heroes, merchants, exiles, pilgrims, and other travelers to far-reaching locations; even more importantly, these works are cross-cultural in form and content, created within global contexts and reflecting a vast array of influences from diverse oral and literary traditions. while all of the stories we will read have origins in the middle ages, some continue to be told and performed in parts of the world even today. degree requirements f2i f4 engl 220 topics in women and literature term: spring, fall credits: 4 a study of works written by or about women, this course is an opportunity to explore the distinct issues that women, their representations, and their writing raise. possible topics: women’s autobiography, contemporary black women authors, and others. may be repeated once with diﬀerent topic. degree requirements f2i f4 engl 221 the novel of manners term: spring, fall credits: 4 a study of the development of the novel of manners as a genre over the nineteenth and twentieth centuries in both england and the united states. this course introduces students to the conventions of the novel of manners and explores the major novelists’ reception and revision of prior works in this influential genre. authors include: jane austen, henry james, and edith wharton. degree requirements f2i f4 engl 224 survey of african american literature term: spring, fall credits: 4 this course will survey the african american literary tradition from the 1600s to the present, with a particular focus on how the musings of african americans capture, engage and critique the american narrative. authors may include: phillis wheatley, w.e.b. du bois, charles chesnutt, claude mckay, zora neale hurston, gwendolyn brooks, ralph ellison, toni morrison, et cetera. degree requirements f2i f4 engl 225 southern literature term: spring, fall credits: 4 a study of literature written about the american south, primarily but not exclusively southern literature of the 19th and 20th centuries. authors likely to be studied include william faulkner, robert penn warren, margaret walker, flannery o’connor, thomas wolfe, eudora welty, and ernest j. gaines. degree requirements f2i f4 engl 230 shakespeare term: spring, fall credits: 4 a survey of shakespeare’s poems and plays, including sonnets, some ten representative comedies, histories, and tragedies from his earlier, middle/uni00a0/uni00a0and later periods, and a generically mixed romance. while the focus will be on literary analysis, the class will also explore the greater context of shakespeare, from the historical meanings of words in his texts to the performance of his works today. this course is designed to provide students with extensive practice in close textual analysis in preparation for enjoying shakespeare throughout their lives. degree requirements f2i f4 engl 235 world drama term: fall credits: 4 an introduction to the critical reading of dramatic texts, and to the various implications of the genre itself. the stage will be explored not only as the site for the enactment of literary themes but also as a cultural arena where the representation of cultural values and discourses becomes contested, subverted, reaﬃrmed, or celebrated. the issues will also be addressed in examining the translation of theater to film. degree requirements f2i f4 engl 240 literature and science term: spring credits: 4 "nature and nature's laws lay hid in night: god said, let newton be! and all was light."alexander pope, one of the premiere poets of the eighteenth century, intended this epitaph tograce the tomb of sir isaac newton, one of history's most celebrated natural philosophers.this course will examine the relationship of literature and science--two areas of knowledgeproduction and intellectual exploration now commonly thought of as separate and inopposition--from the beginnings of the scientific revolution in the seventeenth century to theend of the british enlightenment some two hundred years later. we will see how changes in“modern” scientific and literary practice informed, championed, resisted, and shaped eachother. readings will be drawn from the work of poets, playwrights, natural philosophers,essayists and satirists such as francis bacon, robert hooke, thomas shadwell, margaretcavendish, john milton, alexander pope, jonathan swift, ephraim chambers, and williamwordsworth./uni00a0 degree requirements f2i f4 engl 241 history and criticism of american cinema term: spring, fall credits: 4 this course introduces students to the history of american cinema as art and industry. although hollywood film provides the focus, the/uni00a0course may also examine independent cinema. students will compose essays that demonstrate their grasp of film history and analysis. degree requirements f5 engl 242 world film term: spring, fall credits: 4 a chronological survey of world film, focusing on the theoretical implications of developing technologies and changing social mores, and introducing the major critical approaches to a filmic text. degree requirements f5 engl 245 special topics in film term: spring, fall credits: 4 an introductory film course open to all students. special topics may include alternative cinema (non-fiction and experimental cinema); issues of race, gender, and class; genre studies (comedy, film noir, melodrama); and histories of various technologies and media (the advent of sound film, television, video). may be repeated with diﬀerent topic. degree requirements f5 engl 250 twentieth-century modernist poetry term: spring, fall credits: 4 an introduction to english-language poetry written between 1900 and 1945, this course will explore the stylistic and aesthetic features of poetic modernism and related movements such as imagism, high modernism, regionalism, and the new criticism. authors include robert frost, t.s. eliot, marianne moore, wallace stevens, w.h. auden, edna st. vincent millay, and langston hughes, among others. degree requirements f2i f4 engl 251 developments in contemporary poetry term: spring, fall credits: 4 an introduction to english-language poetry written after 1945, this course will study developments in poetic style and sensibility after modernism. course discussion will address postwar movements and schools such as confessional poetry, the beats, the new york school, the black arts movement, and language poetry, as well as trends in postcolonial and ethnic-american poetry. authors include elizabeth bishop, robert lowell, gwendolyn brooks, philip larkin, derek walcott, sylvia plath, seamus heaney, anne carson, and alberto ríos, among others. degree requirements f2i f4 engl 255 introduction to journalism term: spring credits: 4 this course explores journalism as the literature of civic life and teaches the principles of journalistic writing and storytelling. in addition to reading and discussing examples of contemporary journalism and its role in democracy, we’ll examine the techniques, ethics, and purpose of journalism. students in the course will learn basic journalistic skills (researching, interviewing, fact-checking, reporting, editing) and will engage in frequent workshops with their classmates. degree requirements f2i prerequisites first-year writing seminar engl 260 survey of british literature i term: spring, fall credits: 4 representative works of medieval, renaissance, and 18th-century literature. specific content will vary with the instructor. degree requirements f2i f4 engl 261 survey of british literature ii term: spring, fall credits: 4 representative works of the 19th and 20th centuries. specific content will vary with the instructor. degree requirements f2i f4 engl 262 survey of american literature term: spring, fall credits: 4 representative works primarily from the nineteenth and early twentieth centuries. specific content will vary with the instructor. degree requirements f2i f4 engl 264 studies in african american literature term: spring, fall credits: 4 this course will study representative works within the african american literary tradition. focusing on a particular topic or theme, this course will vary by year and might include the following subjects: african american literary movements, black science fiction, black women writers, black poetry or any other specialty topic. degree requirements f4 f9 engl 265 special topics term: spring, fall credits: 4 recent topics have included the modern novella as well as other courses. content may vary from year to year with the instructor. course may be repeated as long as topics are diﬀerent. degree requirements f2i f4 engl 275 studies in anglophone literature term: spring, fall credits: 4 an introductory course to english-language literatures from around the world. theme will vary by year. sample subjects: nationalism and its discontents, trauma and testimony, literatures of migrancy, “others” and outsiders in world literature, magic realism, booker prizes/booker politics, and cosmopolitanism. students will examine western and non-western texts from a multiplicity of critical and transnational perspectives. degree requirements f2i f4 engl 285 english seminar term: spring, fall credits: 4 this course assists prospective majors and minors in acquiring the necessary tools for middle- and upper-division classes in english. each seminar will focus on the necessary skills for reading literary texts, the development of critical argument, and the ability to situate the text in relation to significant contexts. such contexts might include a text’s historical and cultural circumstances, or its situation within the wider history or discipline of literary studies. not open to seniors. engl 290 how to write: academic writing and the pedagogies that support it term: fall credits: 4 in this interdisciplinary, community-integrative course, students will engage in the study of academic composition and writing pedagogies within the fields of composition and rhetoric, literacy studies, cognitive psychology, urban studies, and education. students in the course develop theoretical frameworks for learning and teaching writing and assist an area public high school in establishing a peerled writing center. degree requirements f2i f11 prerequisites first-year writing seminar first-year writing seminar: daily themes engl 300 intermediate poetry workshop term: spring, fall credits: 4 this course focuses on the theory and craft of poetic form. students will study received forms such as the sonnet, sestina, and pantoum, as well as hybrid, quotidian, and avant-garde forms. readings will include a wide range of poetry as well as essays on poetics, and students will compose poems in many diﬀerent forms, which will be discussed in regular workshops. /uni00a0 prerequisites introduction to creative writing engl 301 intermediate fiction workshop term: fall credits: 4 this course focuses on the craft of fiction writing with an emphasis on elements of narrative form such as point of view, character development, plot, style, tone, and so on. readings will include a sampling of literary fiction as well as historical and formal studies of narrative form, and students will produce several short stories to be discussed in regular workshops. /uni00a0 prerequisites introduction to creative writing engl 305 intermediate nonfiction workshop term: spring credits: 4 in this course, students will study literary nonfiction writing, honing their skills as a reader, a writer, and a critic. students will read literary essays as well as essays on craft, and will produce several nonfiction pieces, which will be discussed in regular workshops. /uni00a0 /uni00a0 prerequisites introduction to creative writing engl 315 history of the english language term: spring credits: 4 a survey of the historical development of english from the old english period to the present, including a consideration of the concept of language, the early origins of english, patterns of pronunciation and spelling, linguistic diversity through time, and modern dialectal variation. (course oﬀered in alternate years.) /uni00a0 engl 316 advanced grammar term: fall credits: 4 an introduction to the structure and variety of the english language. students in the course learn basic linguistic concepts and grammatical terminology, develop an understanding of language use across diverse social and historical contexts, and explore applications of grammar in education, writing, and literary analysis. /uni00a0 prerequisites: fyws 151 and one 200-level english course engl 319 old english language, literature, and culture term: spring, fall credits: 4 introduction to the language, literature, and culture of england until the 11th century. reading competence in old english will be a primary goal, with course materials including a combination of original-language texts and works in modern english translation. (course oﬀered in alternate years.) prerequisite: any 190 or 200 level literature course or permission from instructor. engl 320 medieval literature of the 12th-15th centuries term: fall credits: 4 a study of representative middle english texts in the original language or continental medieval literature in translation. possible topics include the arthurian world; medieval visionary literature; dante in translation; the pearl poet; women and medieval literature; medieval folklore, and others. (course oﬀered in alternate years.)prerequisites: any 200-level literature course or the permission of the instructor. prerequisite: any 190 or 200 level literature course or permission from instructor. engl 321 dante's divine comedy: love and the afterlife credits: 4 this course will focus on the work of dante allighieri, the fourteenth-century italian poet who translated his vision of the christian afterlife into his epic poem the divine comedy. in addition to reading most of dante’s 3-volume work, we will look at some of the works that influenced dante’s vision of the afterlife, including virgil’s aeneid and augustine’s confessions, as well as a work that may have influenced dante, the book of muhammad’s ladder. we will follow the thread of one of dante’s preoccupations: love and it’s relation to the body and to language. all readings and discussion will be in english. pre-requisite: engl 190 or 200 level english course engl 322 renaissance poetry and prose term: spring, fall credits: 4 a study of 16th and 17th century poetry and prose. possible authors: wyatt, surrey, sidney, marlowe, spenser, shakespeare, jonson, raleigh, donne, marvell, herbert, herrick, more, bacon, browne. (course oﬀered in alternate years.) prerequisite: any 190 or 200 level literature course or permission from instructor. engl 323 renaissance drama term: spring, fall credits: 4 a study of non-shakespearean drama of the 16th and 17th centuries. possible dramatists: marlowe, jonson, webster, ford, tourneur, marston, beaumont, fletcher, massinger. (course oﬀered in alternate years.) prerequisite: any 190 or 200 level literature course or permission from instructor. engl 324 renaissance law and literature term: spring credits: 4 in this class, we will read a range of literature that explores the complex relationship between law, justice, and the imagination. we will ask: how does law become an imaginative resource for authors? how do literary depictions of the law reflect back on some of the law’s most diﬃcult philosophical problems? we will also focus on how law and justice themselves require a literary imagination. topics may include: the role of mercy in law and justice; the law’s treatment of diﬀerence, whether it be religious, ethnic, social, sexual, or gendered; the law’s ability to create (or destroy) communities; and the surprising connections between the language of law and the language of love. /uni00a0 prerequisite: any 200-level literature course or permission of the instructor /uni00a0 engl 325 chaucer term: spring credits: 4 a study of representative works by geoﬀrey chaucer in middle english. supplemental readings may also include selections from chaucer’s influences and contemporaries. (course oﬀered in alternate years.) prerequisite: any 190 or 200 level literature course or permission from instructor. engl 332 advanced shakespeare studies term: spring credits: 4 focused exploration of a critical problem in shakespeare studies. the topic of the class will vary from semester to semester, but it will regularly include the study of eight to ten works by shakespeare as well as critical and historical texts. sample subjects: the sonnets; shakespeare and literary form; eco-critical shakespeare; filmed shakespearean adaptations; shakespeare and race. prerequisite: any 190 or 200 level literature course or permission from instructor. engl 335 milton term: spring, fall credits: 4 a study of the major poetry and select prose by the learned 17th-century writer john milton. milton composed an extraordinary range of genres. while we will be surveying the full range of these genres across his career, we will devote much of our attention to paradise lost, the major epic of the english language, based on the story of genesis yet encompassing profound and still relevant reflections on liberty, rebellion, history, providence, and social hierarchies. (course oﬀered in alternate years.) prerequisite: any 190 or 200 level literature course or permission from instructor. engl 336 literature and landscape, 1500-1800 credits: 4 this course investigates two closely related subjects: english literature’s response to changing ideas of nature and the landscape; and the response of designers of english landscapes and gardens to literature. material studied will range from shakespeare to wordsworth, including both the acknowledged literary greats and lesser-known writers of the 17th and 18th centuries. prerequisite: any 190 or 200 level literature course or permission from instructor. engl 340 restoration drama term: fall credits: 4 a study of the drama produced in england after the restoration of charles ii to the throne in 1660. topics include the emergence of the actress on the professional stage, the exceptionally intimate restoration playhouses, the influence of the libertine court on the drama produced in the period, and such representative genres as satiric comedy and the heroic play as well as the rise of sentimental comedy in the 1690s and early 1700s. authors include dryden, rochester, wycherley, etherege, behn, otway, cibber, vanbrugh, congreve and farquhar. prerequisite: any 190 or 200 level literature course or permission from instructor. engl 343 studies in eighteenth-century literature term: spring credits: 4 a course in british poetry, non-fiction prose and drama. in a given year, the course might oﬀer either a complete survey of the period or a thematic focus. areas of focus would include shifts in poetic sensibility, the growth of a national consciousness, the role of religion in literature, and the propagation of print culture. authors include montague, pope, johnson, boswell, burney, addison, steele, and cowper. prerequisite: any 190 or 200 level literature course or permission from instructor. engl 345 eighteenth-century british fiction term: spring credits: 4 the eighteenth century saw the emergence of the novel in its modern form. as a result eighteenth-century novels are all, in diﬀerent ways, experimental, testing and developing the strategies of narration that characterize realist fiction. the course will study a range of novels, as well as debates among critics who have tried to account for the rise of the novel during this period in history. readings may include work by defoe, richardson, fielding, smollett, burney, radcliﬀe, and austen. prerequisite: any 190 or 200 level literature course or permission from instructor. engl 350 romantic poetry and prose term: fall credits: 4 a course in british poetry, drama, fiction and non-fiction prose between 1780s and 1830s. particular prominence will be given to historical and cultural changes in the period--movements of revolution and reaction--and the emergence or redefinition of aesthetic concepts. writers include barbauld, godwin, wollstonecraft, smith, wordsworth, coleridge, byron, shelley, keats, and de quincey. prerequisite: any 190 or 200 level literature course or permission from instructor. engl 351 victorian poetry and prose term: spring credits: 4 the period 1837-1901 (the reign of victoria) witnessed the industrial transformation of britain as well as the often bitterly contested expansion of britain’s global empire. poets and essayists addressed this changing social landscape, and an expanding reading public often turned to their work for guidance in a changing world. this course will study major poems and essays of the period. possible authors include tennyson, carlyle, mill, arnold, elizabeth barrett browning, robert browning, christina rossetti, ruskin, eliot, pater, wilde. prerequisite: any 190 or 200 level literature course or permission from instructor. engl 355 nineteenth-century british fiction term: spring, fall credits: 4 a study of major works, with particular attention to changes in reading habits and publishing practices that altered the shape of the novel during this period. readings may include work by austen, scott, dickens, brontë, gaskell, thackeray, collins, eliot, hardy, and gissing. prerequisite: any 190 or 200 level literature course or permission from instructor. engl 359 early american literature term: spring, fall credits: 4 an advanced study of american literature from its beginnings to 1800. through a diverse range of texts, the course will explore how european colonization, puritanism, and the enlightenment shaped the development of american cultural thought and literary production. course discussions may address the heterogeneous and shifting cultures of early america, the response to british rule and cultural hegemony, and the consolidation of national identity. readings could include narratives of discovery and exploration, puritan writings, native american voices, early american poetry, slave and captivity narratives, works of the enlightenment, and the early american novel. prerequisite: any 190 or 200 level literature course or permission from instructor. engl 360 american romanticism term: spring, fall credits: 4 an advanced study of us poetry, fiction and non-fiction produced between 1820 and 1875. the course will trace the influence on the american imagination of british romanticism and american transcendentalism and also chart the rise of a distinctly american literary tradition. course discussion will also address the political, historical, and cultural forces that shaped the writing of the period, as well as consider the lingering eﬀects of puritanism and enlightenment philosophy. authors may include emerson, thoreau, melville, hawthorne, douglass, whitman, dickinson, and stowe. prerequisite: any 190 or 200 level literature course or permission from instructor. engl 361 american realism and naturalism term: spring, fall credits: 4 an advanced study of literature - primarily novels and short stories - produced in post-civil war america. prompted by post-war disillusionment and the rapid and dramatic changes in american culture, this period saw the concurrent and overlapping emergence of realism and naturalism as well as an increased interest in a regionalist aesthetic. authors may include twain, howells, chesnutt, james, jewett, chopin, crane, norris, and dreiser. prerequisite: any 190 or 200 level literature course or permission from instructor. engl 362 american modernism term: spring, fall credits: 4 an advanced study of important us poetry, drama, fiction, and non-fiction produced between 1900 and 1945. the course will examine these works within the cultural dominant of modernism, which sought to articulate the urgent sense of dislocation and contemporaneity that characterized early twentieth-century experience. the course will ground its exploration of modernist stylistic and aesthetic innovations within the context of the prevailing philosophical, political, historical, and cultural realities of the period. authors could include frost, dos passos, eliot, fitzgerald, hemingway, stevens, cather, hughes, faulkner, and welty. prerequisite: any 190 or 200 level literature course or permission from instructor. engl 363 topics in twentieth-century british literature term: spring, fall credits: 4 an in-depth examination of a specific topic pertaining to british literature and/or culture of the twentieth and twenty-first centuries. topics may focus on specific periods, movements, genres or authors. sample topics: modernist poetry, multicultural british literature, postmodern british literature, british cultural studies, joseph conrad, virginia woolf. may be repeated with diﬀerent topic. prerequisite: any 190 or 200 level literature course or permission from instructor. engl 364 advanced african american literature term: spring, fall credits: 4 the advanced course in african american literature will oﬀer the student a focused study of a particular theme or topic within the african american literary tradition. in addition to literary works, this course will engage historical and critical pieces. varying by year, subjects might include: african american literary theory, african american satire, black existentialist literature, the harlem renaissance, the black arts movement, african american modernism/postmodernism, or any other focused examination of a topic or genre within african american literature. prerequisite: any 190 or 200 level literature course. degree requirements f9 africana studies elective teaching/learning elective engl 365 twentieth-century british fiction term: spring, fall credits: 4 a study of major works, with particular attention to literary modernism—its rise, reception, and wake—within the context of its cultural and socio-historical frameworks. readings may include work by conrad, ford, forster, greene, joyce, lawrence, rhys, waugh, woolf, and other authors from more recent decades. prerequisite: any 190 or 200 level literature course or permission from instructor. engl 366 james joyce's dubliners in context credits: 4 this course will focus on james joyce’s dubliners (1914), the modernist irish author’s masterful collection of fifteen stories set in the irish metropolis at the turn of the last century. these stories— which anatomize and probe irish history and national identity, as well as key social institutions (family, church, school, and pub)--will be explored within the context of relevant political, literary, and biographical matrices, as well as within the context of other works by joyce and other authors. the course will incorporate key critical readings/debates as well as selected plays, films, poems, and popular songs. pre-requisite: engl 190 or 200 level english course engl 370 american postmodernism and beyond term: spring, fall credits: 4 this course will examine fiction, poetry, and drama published between the years following world war ii to the present day. the works will be read against the backdrop of the decline of modernism and european colonialism and the subsequent rise of postmodernism and its many attendant sub- movements. authors could include lowell, ellison, mailer, bellow, sexton, pynchon, barth, o’connor, updike, oates, roth, morrison, and wallace. prerequisite: any 190 or 200 level literature course or permission from instructor. engl 375 topics in postcolonial literature term: spring credits: 4 this course investigates crucial contemporary issues in postcolonial literature and theory. topics will vary by year, though each will explore various voices, relations, and movements that comprise the literature of the postcolonial other. sections might center on specific geopolitical regions (i.e. literatures of the caribbean, africa or south asia), groups of writers (ie, postcolonial women and literature), genre (i.e. postcolonial poetry) or thematic concerns. other sections might provide an overall introduction to postcolonial texts and theory. may be repeated with diﬀerent topic. prerequisite: any 190 or 200 level literature course or permission from instructor. engl 380 topics in literary study term: spring, fall credits: 4 exploration of special topics at a level designed for english majors. content will vary from year to year. may be repeated with diﬀerent topic. prerequisite: any 190 or 200 level literature course or permission from instructor. engl 381 advanced topics in film term: spring, fall credits: 4 the focused exploration of a topic or genre that ties a body of films together in order to pursue issues of film criticism and theory in depth. such topics as the following may be considered: gender and film, race and film, film adaptation, american genre films, the film auteur, screenplay writing. includes the study of critical texts. may be repeated with diﬀerent topic. prerequisite: any 200-level film class or permission from instructor. engl 385 junior seminar: critical theory and methodology term: spring, fall credits: 4 an examination of major developments in literary criticism and critical theory, designed to prepare students for advanced research. to be taken during the fall or spring semester of the junior year. (those studying abroad may take the course in the fall of senior year.) prerequisites english seminar engl 399 tutorial for honors candidates term: spring credits: 1 junior english majors wishing to read for honors are required to enroll in a preparatory tutorial in the spring semester. although required for honors, enrollment in this course does not guarantee acceptance into the honors program. engl 400 advanced poetry workshop term: spring, fall credits: 4 in this capstone workshop, students will work to develop their own poetry while also studying and discussing the long history of poetic theory. weekly readings will include recent collections by a variety of contemporary poets. the course will culminate in a substantial portfolio of poetry. /uni00a0 prerequisites intermediate poetry workshop engl 401 advanced fiction workshop term: spring credits: 4 in this capstone workshop, students will work to develop their own fiction while examining short fiction from all periods of the preceding century, placing their own writing within its historical context. the course will culminate in a substantial portfolio of fiction that may be a story sequence, a novella, or some other assemblage. prerequisites intermediate fiction workshop engl 405 advanced nonfiction workshop term: spring credits: 4 in this capstone workshop, students will continue their study of literary nonfiction writing, honing their skills as a reader, a writer, and a critic. students will read literary essays as well as essays on craft, and will produce a substantial portfolio of literary nonfiction. /uni00a0 prerequisites intermediate nonfiction workshop engl 460 internship term: spring, fall credits: 3, 4 a supervised learning experience, typically in the greater memphis community, in which students apply analytical and writing skills learned in the classroom to fields such as communications, business, journalism, not-for-profit organizations, grant-writing, marketing and social media, and other professional arenas. the program of professional work will be devised by the student, the internship supervisor, and the faculty advisor for internships. all internships must be approved by the chairperson of the department. additional course work will consist of regular journal entries, a final paper, and a portfolio of work written for the internship. engl 460 is a graded internship and is taken for 3-4 credits. /uni00a0 degree requirements f11 engl 461 internship term: spring, fall, summer credits: 1 or 2 a supervised learning experience, typically in the greater memphis community, in which students apply analytical and writing skills learned in the classroom to fields such as communications, business, journalism, not-for-profit organizations, grant-writing, marketing and social media, and other professional arenas. the program of professional work will be devised by the student, the internship supervisor, and the faculty advisor for internships. all internships must be approved by the chairperson of the department. additional course work will consist of brief journal entries and a portfolio of work written for the internship. engl 461 is a pass/fail course and can be taken for 1-2 credits. degree requirements f11 engl 465 tutorial in one-to-one writing pedagogy term: fall credits: 2 theoretical and applied study of one-to-one writing instruction. engl 485 senior research seminar term: spring, fall credits: 4 a focused exploration of special topics or critical problems in literary study culminating in the preparation of an independent research essay and a major oral presentation of the research. topics chosen by the instructor will vary from section to section and may focus on major authors, distinct literary genres or movements, historical contexts, and/or significant themes. topics will be published annually; rising seniors will select preferred topics. for further information, see the english department chair. enrollment by permission only. engl 495 honors tutorial term: fall credits: 4-8 satisfies the senior paper requirement. for seniors only. prerequisites tutorial for honors candidates engl 496 honors tutorial term: spring credits: 4-8 satisfies the senior paper requirement. for seniors only. prerequisites tutorial for honors candidates envs 106 introductory topics in environmental science term: spring, fall credits: 4 this course oﬀers students an introduction to various topics in the field of environmental sciences. topics vary with instructor. envs 107 environment, conservation, and policy issues term: fall credits: 4 this course will oﬀer an introduction to the most influential factors shaping the ecosystems and their conservation looking at the global, regional and local factors that determine the climates and the contrasting ecosystems that can be found in ecuador. the course includes several field visits to the ecuadorian amazon (tiputini biodiversity station) and the galapagos islands, thus, allowing students to experience first-hand current topics of conservation and policy issues, while discussing the main environmental challenges associated with the conservation of natural ecosystems in tropical developing countries. additionally, this course reviews the environmental issues facing contemporary ecuador in the context of a transforming global reality. we will look at specific environmental issues that are of concern for ecuador and the region including, the oil industry and indigenous communities in the amazon basin, aquaculture, and shrimp farming, introduced species, large scale ranching and deforestation, fisheries, and the management of fragile marine ecosystems such as the galapagos. we will investigate possible solutions that consider political and ecological pressures, perspectives of indigenous populations, environmentalists, the governments, ngos, as well as international investors and multinational companies. it all revolves around this little but diverse country. envs 108 tropical biology term: fall credits: 4 this course surveys the diversity of tropical ecosystems and examines the ecological and evolutionary processes that shape them. through lectures, readings, discussions, and guest speakers, the course examines foundational theories and major themes in tropical biology, including species diversity, adaptations and coevolution, community structure, biogeography, and conservation challenges. the course uses ecuador as a model to illustrate general principles and contemporary issues in tropical ecology and conservation. by the end of this course, you’ll be able to: 1. identify major tropical ecosystems, describe their climatic and biological characteristics, and explain the fundamental reasons tropical systems diﬀer from temperate ones. 2. understand the ecological and evolutionary mechanisms that shape patterns of species diversity and explain why there are so many species in the tropics. 3. critically examine the assumptions and empirical evidence supporting or rejecting hypotheses that have guided our understanding of tropical ecosystems. 4. understand the major threats to tropical ecosystems and how ecological principles can inform conservation eﬀorts. envs 111 physical geology term: spring, fall credits: 4 introduction to the composition and structure of the earth and processes that create modern landscapes. topics include plate tectonics, the formation of minerals and rocks, weathering, erosion, and crustal deformation. three hours of lecture and three hours of lab per week, plus optional week-end field trips. degree requirements f7 envs 120 introduction to earth and atmospheric science term: fall credits: 4 this course provides an introduction to the earth’s physical landscape including climate, landforms, and vegetation, and the processes that link them. the first section of the course examines atmospheric processes and the distribution and characteristics of the earth’s climatic regions. the second section of the course focuses on processes at or near the earth’s surface and gives special attention to volcanic and tectonic landforms; weathering and erosion; fluvial, aeolian and glacial processes; and the landforms they produce. the main objective of the course is for students to gain a basic understanding of the interaction between climate and the physical and biological systems at the earth’s surface. degree requirements f7 envs 150 environment and society term: fall credits: 4 this course is an introduction to contemporary environmental issues. topics may include over- population pressures, climate change, energy consumption, water availability, biological diversity decline, sustainability practices, agricultural land-use, and global environmental governance, among other major global environmental challenges. faculty from the natural sciences and humanities/social sciences in the environmental studies and sciences program sometimes team- teach this course. using an interdisciplinary approach, students will learn the science behind these issues, as well as the economic, political and cultural factors that influence environmental change and shape our responses to it. this course is required for both the environmental studies and environmental sciences majors and minors. envs 170 rocky mountain field reserch term: maymester credits: 4 this field course, taught by faculty at the teton science schools in jackson hole, wyoming, is focused on community ecology of the greater yellowstone ecosystem (gye). this course also contains a substantial research component in which students will participate in a long-standing tss program in order to develop skills in research design and data collection. then students will create and complete their own research projects. the course will connect students with the other programming areas of teton science schools as well as other professionals in the environmental science field in the context of professional opportunities after college. this course fulfills the environmental experience required for environmental studies and sciences majors and minors. requires separate application process and payment of additional tuition. degree requirements f7 f11 envs 205 selected topics in environmental studies term: spring, fall credits: 4 introduction to selected topics in environmental studies. topics vary with instructor. may be repeated for credit when topics vary. not oﬀered every year. envs 206 selected topics in environmental sciences term: spring, fall credits: 4 introduction to selected topics in environmental sciences. topics vary with instructor. may be repeated for credit when topics vary. course oﬀering may or may not have a laboratory credit associated with the class. not oﬀered every year. course may include the equivalent of 3 hours of laboratory each week. envs 207 linking the local to the global term: fall credits: 4 this course examines local environmental challenges in cuenca, ecuador and nearby locations. students will learn about topics such as gold mining and its eﬀects on water quality, eco- agricultural sustainable food production, corn sovereignty (small production vs. large agro- industrial production), and invasive species of flora and fauna (e.g. introduction of trout in cajas). experiential learning will be a significant element of the course and students will regularly visit local communities, ngos, museums, governmental oﬃces, etc. so that students can learn from those who are most aﬀected by these issues. additionally, students will observe local community members’ engagement in political activism, artistic expression, and cultural practices that illustrate their experiences with the environment and their eﬀorts to pursue alternative ways of interfacing with the natural world. envs 211 geomorphology term: spring, fall credits: 4 this course examines the origin of landforms and their relationship to underlying geology and geologic history with emphasis on the processes acting on the earth"s surface that include active tectonics, weathering, mass-wasting, karst, rivers, deserts, coastal, and glaciation. prerequisites physical geology envs 220 physical geography of the southeastern united states term: spring credits: 4 this course examines the physical landscapes in the southeastern united states. this is the non- glaciated, humid-subtropical region of eastern north america that includes the southern appalachian mountains, coastal plain, interior low plateaus, and the ozark and ouachita mountains. the primary focus is on the geological setting, geomorphic features, climate, soils, and vegetation. students will examine the interrelationships of these factors in addition to human activities that shape the landscape. envs 260 aquatic ecosystem analysis term: fall credits: 4 this courses is taught at the semester in environmental sciences (ses) program at the marine biological laboratory in woods hole, massachusetts. the course covers aquatic ecosystems from the point of view of biogeochemistry and important ecological processes. in the field and laboratory students will start out in the first eight weeks of the core courses with an intensive study focused mainly on local ecosystems –ponds and estuaries within the waquoit bay watershed adjacent to vineyard sound, west falmouth harbor on buzzards bay, and grassland, forest and suburban sites in the towns of mashpee and falmouth, ma. this course may count as an upper- level natural science elective. requires separate application process. envs 270 terrestrial ecosystem analysis term: fall credits: 4 this courses is taught at the semester in environmental sciences (ses) program at the marine biological laboratory in woods hole, massachusetts. the course covers terrestrial ecosystems from the point of view of biogeochemistry and important ecological processes./uni00a0 in the field and laboratory students will start out in the first eight weeks of the core courses with an intensive study focused mainly on local ecosystems. terrestrial fieldwork is conducted in grassland, forest and suburban habitats in the crane wildlife management area in mashpee and other sites in falmouth. the sites are chosen to represent a disturbance chronosequence and allow comparison of ecosystems processes, such as primary production and nitrogen mineralization, and properties such as standing stock, plant diversity and soil carbon and nitrogen content across the disturbance gradient. requires separate application process. envs 325 advanced gis and remote sensing term: spring credits: 4 this course focuses on the analysis of spatial data using models, spatial statistics, and remotely- sensed data sets. there will be an emphasis on real-world applications to research topics in multiple disciplines including, but not limited to, environmental studies, environmental science, urban studies, conservation, ecology, public health, and anthropology. /uni00a0 prerequisites geographic information systems (gis) envs 450 independent research project term: fall credits: 4 this research project is conducted at the semester in environmental sciences (ses) program at the marine biological laboratory in woods hole, massachusetts. as part of the ses program, students conduct research on a project of their choosing. the project gives students a chance to work independently, although they are supported by a principal investigator at the mbl ecosystems center or mbl bay paul center. students have access to ecosystems center facilities and equipment as well as access to mbl field sites such as the harvard forest lter or plum island ecosystems lter. ses students present their projects in a formal symposium before their classmates and the center’s scientific staﬀ . requires separate application process. envs 451 research term: spring, fall credits: 1-4 qualified students may conduct original laboratory, field research, or independent study under a faculty member’s supervision. a student may use four credits of research to satisfy one of the upper-level requirements in environmental science, or as one of the elective requirements in environmental studies. students may earn a maximum of four credits for envs 451 and 452. interested students should consult the appropriate envs faculty member. with approval of the director of the environmental studies and sciences program, this course may fulfill the environmental experience required for environmental studies and sciences majors and minors. envs 452 research term: spring, fall credits: 1-4 qualified students may conduct original laboratory, field research, or independent study under a faculty member’s supervision. a student may use four credits of research to satisfy one of the upper-level requirements in environmental science, or as one of the elective requirements in environmental studies. students may earn a maximum of four credits for envs 451 and 452. interested students should consult the appropriate envs faculty member. with approval of the director of the environmental studies and sciences program, this course may fulfill the environmental experience required for environmental studies and sciences majors and minors. envs 460 internship term: spring, fall credits: 1-4 the environmental studies and sciences internship enables students to make connections between what they have learned in the classroom and the world around them by applying their knowledge to real-world settings. interns can work with a variety of local environmental agencies or organizations. students must be approved by the oﬃce of career services and have the permission of the director of the environmental studies and sciences program. this course fulfills the environmental experience required for environmental studies and sciences minors. degree requirements f11 envs 486 senior seminar term: spring credits: 4 this senior capstone experience allows environmental studies and environmental sciences majors to make interdisciplinary connections between topics and themes which they have studied throughout their coursework. assignments may include substantial reading, research projects, and oral presentations. envs 495 honors tutorial term: spring, fall credits: 4-8 open to candidates for honors in environmental studies and sciences. includes supervised honors research in an environmental studies or environmental sciences field of study. envs 496 honors tutorial term: spring, fall credits: 4-8 open to candidates for honors in environmental studies and sciences. includes supervised honors research in an environmental studies or environmental sciences field of study. fren 101 elementary french term: fall credits: 4 fundamentals of the language including pronunciation, grammar, reading, writing, and speaking. fren 102 elementary french term: spring, fall credits: 4 a continuation of 101. additional fundamentals of the language including pronunciation, grammar, reading, writing, and speaking. fren 141 topics in the francophone world term: spring credits: 4 intensive study of some aspect of french and/or francophone culture and literature. no prior knowledge of french is necessary: all works are read in english. fren 154 african literatures of french expression in translation term: fall credits: 4 an introduction to the reading and analysis of african literatures written in french. the course examines identity/otherness, “race,” cultural hegemony, oral literatures, gender-related issues, and post-colonialism. no prior knowledge of french is necessary: all works are read and discussed in english. open to seniors with permission of instructor only. degree requirements f4 f9 fren 200 intensive french term: summer credits: 4 immersion-style french language study at the intermediate level, in a francophone country. may be used to satisfy the college’s proficiency requirement in foreign languages. degree requirements f10 f11 prerequisites elementary french fren 201 intermediate french term: spring, fall credits: 4 continued practice and acquisition of the basic language skills: listening, reading, speaking, writing, and cultural proficiency. degree requirements f10 prerequisites elementary french fren 202 french and francophone connections term: spring, fall credits: 4 enhanced practice and acquisition of linguistic and cultural skills. particular attention is placed on the/uni00a0discussion of literary and cultural texts, and on exploration of current topics in the french- speaking world. prerequisites intermediate french fren 301 literary analysis through written expression term: fall credits: 4 this course develops the ability to read critically and write substantial analytical essays in french. introduction to literary analysis and advanced grammar review. degree requirements f2i prerequisites french and francophone connections fren 305 intensive french term: summer credits: 4 immersion-style french language study beyond the intermediate level, in a francophone country. counts as one elective course beyond the three core courses in the french minor. degree requirements f11 prerequisites french and francophone connections fren 306 conversation practicum term: spring, fall credits: 1 emphasis on oral expression and listening comprehension. small group format. may be repeated once for credit with a diﬀerent instructor or topic. recommended in conjunction with french 301. prerequisites french and francophone connections fren 308 french and francophone cultural heritage term: summer credits: 4 intensive french language study at the advanced level in a francophone country, supplemented by an in-depth investigation of a major aspect of that culture’s civilization. research paper and formal oral presentation. counts as one course towards the major in french. degree requirements f11 prerequisites literary analysis through written expression fren 317 modern france credits: 4 life in france and the francophone world. french readings on contemporary society, lifestyles, values, art and fashion, commerce, and advertising. readings in leading french newspapers, periodicals, and on the internet. research project. prerequisites french and francophone connections fren 320 studies in the francophone world credits: 4 addressing broad questions of cultural exchange, postcolonial identies, and the diversity of the francophone world, this course will take varied thematic approaches and regional focuses (such as north and sub-saharan africa, the caribbean, quebec, louisiana.) these themes and regions will be studies through various media such as music, film, literature, and historical texts. prerequisites french and francophone connections fren 321 french society from the middle ages to the revolution term: spring credits: 4 survey of the historical, intellectual, and artistic forces that shaped french society from the middle ages to the fall of the ancien régime in 1789. degree requirements f2i f3 prerequisites french and francophone connections fren 322 french society from napoleon to the 21st century term: spring credits: 4 survey of the social, political, intellectual, and artistic changes that have created modern french society and its contemporary issues. degree requirements f3 prerequisites french and francophone connections fren 323 survey of french literature through the revolution term: spring credits: 4 a survey of selected texts from the middle ages, renaissance, classical period and the enlightenment. this course familiarizes students with key literary texts through close textual reading and analysis. /uni00a0 degree requirements f4 prerequisites french and francophone connections fren 324 survey of literature since the revolution term: fall credits: 4 a survey of selected works from the nineteenth, twentieth and twenty-first centries./uni00a0 this course familiarizes students with key literary texts through close textual readings and analysis. students are advised to take french 320, 321 or 322 prior to french 324. degree requirements f4 prerequisites literary analysis through written expression fren 332 studies in the french theatre term: fall credits: 4 plays by representative french dramatists from the french classical period to the present. /uni00a0 degree requirements f5 prerequisites french and francophone connections fren 334 french and francophone cinema term: spring credits: 4 a study of prominent directors and movements of french and francophone cinema, this course emphasizes techniques and themes of french and francophone filmmaking and may include the new wave and other movements. taught in english. counts toward the film studies minor. /uni00a0 degree requirements f5 fren 335 special topics in french fiction term: spring, fall credits: 4 selected readings and exporatino of a theme linking texts through several centuries./uni00a0may be repeated for credit with a diﬀerent topic. /uni00a0 prerequisites french and francophone connections fren 336 contemporary french literature term: fall credits: 4 focusing on a particular theme, the course examines the developments associated with contemporary issues in french culture and society as they are represented in french literature and film from the 1970s to the present. prerequisites french and francophone connections fren 337 french language studies credits: 1-4 special studies in contemporary french usage. focus on practical analysis of the french language. /uni00a0 prerequisites literary analysis through written expression fren 337 french language studies credits: 1-4 special studies in contemporary french usage. focus on practical analysis of the french language. fren 340 introduction to translation term: spring, fall credits: 4 emphasis on/uni00a0strategies of translation. students will be trained in a variety of techniques to translate accurately and idiomatically from french into english and from english into french. /uni00a0 prerequisites literary analysis through written expression fren 354 african literatures in french term: spring credits: 4 examines the origins and development of sub-saharan african literatures written in french. emphasis on the origins and dynamics of the négritude movement, postcolonial theories and literatures, and the emergence of women’s voices in literature. /uni00a0 /uni00a0 degree requirements f9 prerequisites literary analysis through written expression fren 355 (im)migration in france: contemporary representations and debates term: spring, fall credits: 4 this course explores the diversity of france through its immigrant population (including but not limited to north african, west african, and caribbean, as well as second and third generation immigrants). after discussing the history and composition of immigration in france, debates around national identity and integration vs. assimilation, we will look at cultural production as well as oﬃcial policy pertaining to migration. we will examine visual and discursive rhetorical strategies used in films and other media to represent ethnic, cultural, and religious minorities, discrimination, secularism, national education, and women’s rights. we will consider questions of space and urban environments in france and contextualize current french and european laws regarding migrant camps in northern france. texts to include essays, novels, short stories, films, music, photography, and street art. prerequisites: french 320, 321 or 322, and 323 or 324. fren 441 special topics in french studies credits: 4 intensive study of some aspect of french literature, culture, or linguistics. fren 442 special topics in french studies credits: 4 intensive study of some aspect of francophone literature, culture, or linguistics. fren 486 senior seminar term: fall credits: 4 an independent research and writing project designed to result in an oral presentation and a paper of critical inquiry on a topic of the student's choice. the senior seminar reviews the analytical skills that students have gained throughout their course of study and gives them the opportunity to apply these to an independent research project. emphasis is given to the process of defining and developing a substantial research topic and critical argument, and to the crafting of a major research paper. fren 495 honors tutorial term: spring, fall credits: 1-8 /uni00a0 /uni00a0 fren 496 honors tutorial term: spring, fall credits: 4-8 /uni00a0 /uni00a0 fyws 151 first-year writing seminar term: spring, fall credits: 4 a course that develops the ability to read and think critically, to employ discussion and writing as a means of exploring and refining ideas, and to express those ideas in eﬀective prose. individual sections of the course will explore diﬀerent topics in reading, discussion, and writing. topics are selected by individual professors and are designed to help students develop transferable skills of analysis and argumentation, applicable to the various disciplines of the liberal arts and sciences. several papers will be required, at least one of which will involve use of the library and proper documentation. the seminar will emphasize successive stages of the writing process, including prewriting, drafting, and revision, and will provide feedback from classmates and the instructor. students may not take both fyws 151 and fyws 155. degree requirements f2s fyws 155 first-year writing seminar: daily themes term: spring, fall credits: 4 an alternative to fyws 151 oﬀered to outstanding first-year writers, by invitation from the director of college writing. the course is limited to 12 students who meet as a class once a week and individually with the instructor or in small groups with the writing fellow once a week. students will turn in 4 one-page themes each week. some research will be required, and students will use their daily themes as the basis for two longer papers: one at mid term and the other at the end of the semester. students may not take both fyws 151 and fyws 155. degree requirements f2s grek 101 elementary greek term: fall credits: 4 this series of courses introduces students to the fundamentals of the ancient greek language. although the primary goal of the elementary sequence of courses through greek 201 is to prepare students to use ancient greek documents in a wide variety of academic contexts, students will develop all four language skills: reading, writing, listening, and speaking. grek 102 elementary greek term: spring credits: 4 this series of courses introduces students to the fundamentals of the ancient greek language. although the primary goal of the elementary sequence of courses through greek 201 is to prepare students to use ancient greek documents in a wide variety of academic contexts, students will develop all four language skills: reading, writing, listening, and speaking. grek 201 intermediate greek term: fall credits: 4 this course concludes the elementary language sequence and prepares students for more advanced work in the language. during this course, students will make the transition from graded selections in the elementary texts to authentic ancient texts primarily from the fifth and fourth centuries bce. in addition to developing their ability to comprehend and interpret ancient texts, students will continue to work on their aural-oral proficiency. degree requirements f10 prerequisites elementary greek grek 203 koine greek term: spring, fall credits: 4 this course introduces students to koine greek, the “common” dialect of the post-classical period from ca. 323 bce to ad 300 and concentrates on the narrative and epistolary texts of the new testament. instructors may choose to read in addition some selections from the greek translation of the hebrew scriptures (septuagint), the apocrypha and pseudepigrapha, philo, and josephus. its primary aims are to help students improve not only their ability to read ancient greek texts in the original but also to critically examine them, building upon the skills acquired in the search and life programs. degree requirements f1 f10 prerequisites elementary greek grek 265 topics in greek literature term: spring, fall credits: 1-4 in this course advanced students of ancient greek will read and analyze texts from major works of literature. it will feature materials organized thematically, generically, by period, or by author. texts in this course will generally represent significant documents for the study of the cultural and literary history of the greek society and may also be the subjects of study in other courses oﬀered at rhodes both by grs and other disciplines. the course will help students develop greater reading fluency and expand their understanding of interpretative approaches. the course will generally be taught as a four-credit course. students in special circumstances may take the course for one, two, or three credits with the permission of the instructor. the course may be repeated for credit if the topic diﬀers. degree requirements f4 f10 prerequisites intermediate greek grek 291 homeric poetry term: fall credits: 4 this course, making extensive use of resources available via the internet, focuses on the earliest literary documents in the greek language, the poems attributed to homer. readings will come primarily from the iliad and odyssey, but students should expect to do some work with the hymns and the hesiodic corpus as well. students will participate in a weekly webcast lecture, an on-line discussion moderated by faculty members from institutions that participate in sunoikisis (www.sunoikisis.org), and weekly tutorials with faculty members at rhodes. this course is specifically designed for advanced students and will include a rigorous study of the cultural and historical context during the archaic period of greek history as well as the issues of composition and transmission. students will also become familiar with current interpretative approaches to the material. prerequisites topics in greek literature grek 292 greek lyric poetry term: fall credits: 4 this course, making extensive use of resources available via the internet, focuses on the evolution of major types of greek poetry, including elegy, monodic lyric, and choral lyric. students will participate in a weekly webcast lecture, an on-line discussion moderated by faculty members from institutions that participate in sunoikisis (www.sunoikisis.org), and weekly tutorials with faculty members at rhodes. this course is specifically designed for advanced students and will include a rigorous study of the cultural and historical context of the archaic period. students will also become familiar with current interpretative approaches to the material. prerequisites topics in greek literature grek 293 greek comedy term: fall credits: 4 this course, making extensive use of resources available via the internet, focuses on the work of the athenian comic playwrights. students will participate in a weekly webcast lecture, an on-line discussion moderated by faculty members from institutions that participate in sunoikisis (www.sunoikisis.org), and weekly tutorials with faculty members at rhodes. this course is specifically designed for advanced students and will include a rigorous study of the cultural and historical context during the 5th and 4th centuries bce. students will also become familiar with the current interpretative approaches to the material. grek 294 literature of the 4th century bce term: fall credits: 4 this course, making extensive use of resources available via the internet, focuses on the work of the athenian historians, orators, and philosophers who were active in the 4th century bce. students will participate in a weekly webcast lecture, an on-line discussion moderated by faculty members from institutions that participate in sunoiksis (www.sunoikisis.org), and weekly tutorials with faculty members at their home institutions. this course is specifically designed for advanced students and will include a rigorous study of the cultural and historical context during the 4th century bce. students will also become familiar with the current interpretative approaches to the material. prerequisites topics in greek literature grek 295 hellenistic literature term: fall credits: 4 this course, making extensive use of resources available via the internet, focuses on the evolution of greek literature during the hellenistic period, which begins with the conquest of alexander the great and the founding of the museum at alexandria by ptolemy i soter. students will read and study the works of the major authors of the period: callimachus, theocritus, and apollonius of rhodes as well as epigrams from other writers including meleager, philodemus, and posidippus. students will participate in a weekly webcast lecture, an on-line discussion moderated by faculty members from institutions that participate in sunoikisis (www.sunoikisis.org), and weekly tutorials with faculty members at rhodes. this course is specifically designed for advanced students and will include a rigorous study of the cultural and historical context of the hellenistic period. students will also become familiar with current interpretative approaches to the material. prerequisites topics in greek literature grek 391 homeric poetry term: fall credits: 4 this course, making extensive use of resources available via the internet, focuses on the earliest literary documents in the greek language, the poems attributed to homer. readings will come primarily from the iliad and odyssey, but students should expect to do some work with the hymns and the hesiodic corpus as well. students will participate in a weekly webcast lecture, an on-line discussion moderated by faculty members from institutions that participate in sunoikisis (www.sunoikisis.org), and weekly tutorials with faculty members at rhodes. this course is specifically designed for advanced students and will include a rigorous study of the cultural and historical context during the archaic period of greek history as well as the issues of composition and transmission. students will also become familiar with current interpretative approaches to the material. prerequisites topics in greek literature grek 392 greek lyric poetry term: fall credits: 4 this course, making extensive use of resources available via the internet, focuses on the evolution of major types of greek poetry, including elegy, monodic lyric, and choral lyric. students will participate in a weekly webcast lecture, an on-line discussion moderated by faculty members from institutions that participate in sunoikisis (www.sunoikisis.org), and weekly tutorials with faculty members at rhodes. this course is specifically designed for advanced students and will include a rigorous study of the cultural and historical context of the archaic period. students will also become familiar with current interpretative approaches to the material. prerequisites topics in greek literature grek 393 greek comedy term: fall credits: 4 this course, making extensive use of resources available via the internet, focuses on the work of the athenian comic playwrights. students will participate in a weekly webcast lecture, an on-line discussion moderated by faculty members from institutions that participate in sunoikisis (www.sunoikisis.org), and weekly tutorials with faculty members at rhodes. this course is specifically designed for advanced students and will include a rigorous study of the cultural and historical context during the 5th and 4th centuries bce. students will also become familiar with the current interpretative approaches to the material. grek 394 literature of the 4th century bce term: fall credits: 4 this course, making extensive use of resources available via the internet, focuses on the work of the athenian historians, orators, and philosophers who were active in the 4th century bce. students will participate in a weekly webcast lecture, an on-line discussion moderated by faculty members from institutions that participate in sunoiksis (www.sunoikisis.org), and weekly tutorials with faculty members at their home institutions. this course is specifically designed for advanced students and will include a rigorous study of the cultural and historical context during the 4th century bce. students will also become familiar with the current interpretative approaches to the material. prerequisites topics in greek literature grek 395 hellenistic literature term: fall credits: 4 this course, making extensive use of resources available via the internet, focuses on the evolution of greek literature during the hellenistic period, which begins with the conquest of alexander the great and the founding of the museum at alexandria by ptolemy i soter. students will read and study the works of the major authors of the period: callimachus, theocritus, and apollonius of rhodes as well as epigrams from other writers including meleager, philodemus, and posidippus. students will participate in a weekly webcast lecture, an on-line discussion moderated by faculty members from institutions that participate in sunoikisis (www.sunoikisis.org), and weekly tutorials with faculty members at rhodes. this course is specifically designed for advanced students and will include a rigorous study of the cultural and historical context of the hellenistic period. students will also become familiar with current interpretative approaches to the material. prerequisites topics in greek literature grek 415 tutorial assistantship term: spring, fall credits: 2 under the direction of the instructor, the tutorial assistant will be responsible for helping plan and conduct the tutorial sessions for elementary students. assistants will also develop a familiarity with issues concerning second language acquisition and assist in the evaluation of language courses. this course is open only to advanced students and by permission of the instructor. grst 101 beginning german i term: spring, fall credits: 4 part 1 of the introduction to german language and culture. through flipped-classroom model and communicative approaches, students develop basic proficiency in german speaking, listening, reading, and writing. students learn about critical concerns connecting germany and the globe. through short texts, interactive activities, experiments, and interviews, students learn about and discuss topics like nutrition and cuisine, fashion, family, and fitness. the language of instruction is german and corresponds to standard proficiency guidelines for "novice low-high" (a1) language learners. /uni00a0 grst 102 beginning german ii term: spring, fall credits: 4 part 2 of the introduction to german language and culture. through flipped-classroom model and communicative approaches, students develop basic proficiency in german speaking, listening, reading, and writing. students learn about critical concerns connecting germany and the globe. through short texts, interactive activities, experiments, and interviews, students learn about and discuss topics like recycling and climate change, migration and religion. the language of instruction is german and corresponds to standard proficiency guidelines for "intermediate low- mid" (a2) language learners. /uni00a0 prerequisites beginning german i grst 201 intermediate german i term: fall credits: 4 what is german? - multicultural voices in the german-speaking world - through a literacy-based study of multicultural voices from the german-speaking world, including the immigrant experience and exile narratives, via a variety of text genres, students will gain further proficiency in german speaking, listening comprehension, reading, and writing. the language of instruction is german, corresponding to standard proficiency guidelines for “novice high” to “intermediate low” language learners. /uni00a0 degree requirements f10 prerequisites beginning german ii german in germany i grst 202 intermediate german ii term: spring credits: 4 contemporary german media -through a literacy-based study of contemporary german life through news broadcasts, articles from the german press, film, and other media, students will gain further proficiency in german speaking, listening comprehension, reading, and writing. the language of instruction is german and corresponds to standard proficiency guidelines for “intermediate mid-advanced low” (b1.2) language learners. /uni00a0 prerequisites intermediate german i grst 205 german in germany i term: summer credits: 4 an intensive study of intermediate german in germany. this course does not count toward the major or the minor. degree requirements f11 grst 206 german in germany ii credits: 4 an intensive study of intermediate german in germany. grst 210 readings (intermediate level) term: spring, fall credits: 1-4 readings designed to meet individual interests and needs. grst 220 german literature, culture, and society, 1750-1870 term: fall credits: 4 a two-semester survey of the cultural and intellectual history of the german speaking peoples particularly after 1750. the historical periods covered will be presented within the framework of specific topics, such as revolution or national identity. readings from a variety of areas (literature, philosophy, politics, etc.); films, lectures, reports, and discussions. 220/320 will cover roughly 1750-1870; 221/321 will proceed from 1870-present. german 320-321 is reserved for majors and minors. students taking these courses toward the major or minor must take one credit of 311 concurrently. degree requirements f3 f4 grst 221 german literature, culture, and society 1871-present term: fall credits: 4 a two-semester survey of the cultural and intellectual history of the german speaking peoples particularly after 1750. the historical periods covered will be presented within the framework of specific topics, such as revolution or national identity. readings from a/uni00a0variety of areas (literature, philosophy, politics, etc.); films, lectures, reports, and discussions. 220/320 will cover roughly 1750-1870;/uni00a0221/321 will proceed from 1870-present. german 320-321 is reserved for majors and minors. students taking these courses toward the/uni00a0major or minor must take one credit of 311 concurrently. degree requirements f3 grst 240 german cinema term: spring, fall credits: 4 this course, examining important german films since the days of the weimar republic, places special emphasis on the historical and social background of each film as well as the aesthetic qualities of the works. it thereby seeks to contribute to a better understanding of recent german history and of films as an artistic medium. filmmakers to be studied include friedrich murnau, fritz lang, leni riefenstahl, volker schlöndorﬀ , helma sanders-brahms, wim wenders, rainer werner fassbinder, and wolfgang becker. all films are subtitled; the course is taught in english. german studies 340 is reserved for majors and minors, who will do substantial portions of coursework in german. degree requirements f5 grst 242 the holocaust in text, image, and memory term: spring, fall credits: 4 examination of such topics as the origins and expressions of anti-semitism in central europe, the political events and structures of the holocaust, the reality of ghettos and concentration camps, the impact of technological modernization on the final solution, and resistance to the nazis. materials will include non-fictional texts, literature, art, and music. all materials and discussions in english. german 342 is reserved for majors and minors, who will do substantial portions of the work for the course in german. degree requirements f2 f9 grst 244 german myths and fairy tales term: spring, fall credits: 4 an introduction to german myths and fairy tales from the 19th century to the present day. students read original stories and legends and compare them to modern literary and visual adaptations. considering the ideological importance of the german forest; analyzing issues of gender, violence, fatness, and disability; and examining the reoccurring and hybrid figure of the siren, students turn a critical eye on the german literary tradition. the language of instruction is english. german studies 344 is reserved for majors and minors, who will do substantial portions of coursework in german. degree requirements f2 f4 grst 248 topics in german literature term: spring, fall credits: 4 emphasis on a specific author, group of authors, or theme. course topics may vary, and students may repeat the course with a diﬀerent topic. the language of instruction is english. german studies 348 is reserved for majors and minors, who will do substantial portions of coursework in german. degree requirements f4 grst 301 german in the professional and business world term: fall credits: 4 students explore the professional and cultural aspects of the german business world. crafting career portfolios and participating in mock interviews, b1 students hone their vocabulary and grammatical abilities by way of authentic case studies and relevant role play. by engaging with guest speakers working in germany and analyzing relevant films, texts, and cultural objects, students are encouraged to draw critical comparisons between business and professional life in germany and north america amid the global economy. the language of instruction is german and corresponds to standard proficiency guidelines for "advanced low" (b2.1) language learners. prerequisites intermediate german ii grst 302 babylon berlin: crime, sex, and the city term: spring credits: 4 in this course, students watch and analyze the popular netflix series babylon berlin to further develop speaking, comprehension, reading, and writing skills in german. pairing episodes of the hit television show with primary sources, students explore the tumultuous political climate, scintillating cabaret culture, and budding disciplines of criminology and sexology in the weimar period between world wars. the language of instruction is german and corresponds to standard proficiency guidelines for "advanced mid" (b2.2) language learners./uni00a0 /uni00a0 prerequisites intermediate german ii german in the professional and business world grst 305 german in germany i term: summer credits: 4 an intensive study of advanced german in germany. degree requirements f11 grst 306 german in germany ii credits: 4 an intensive study of advanced german in germany. grst 310 readings (advanced level) term: spring, fall credits: 1-4 readings designed to meet individual interests and needs. may be taken more than once for credit with new topics. grst 311 supplemental readings term: spring, fall credits: 1 this course is designed to give students opportunities to read, write, and speak in german in conjunction with the coursework in english. /uni00a0 grst 320 german literature, culture, and society, 1750-1870 term: fall credits: 4 a two-semester survey of the cultural and intellectual history of the german speaking peoples particularly after 1750. the historical periods covered will be presented within the framework of specific topics, such as revolution or national identity. readings from a/uni00a0variety of areas (literature, philosophy, politics, etc.); films, lectures, reports, and discussions. 220/320 will cover roughly 1750-1870;/uni00a0221/321 will proceed from 1870-present. german 320-321 is reserved for majors and minors. students taking these courses toward the/uni00a0major or minor must take one credit of 311 concurrently. degree requirements f3 f4 prerequisites german in the professional and business world babylon berlin: crime, sex, and the city grst 321 german literature, culture, and society, 1871-present term: fall credits: 4 a two-semester survey of the cultural and intellectual history of the german speaking peoples particularly after 1750. the historical periods covered will be presented within the framework of specific topics, such as revolution or national identity. readings from a/uni00a0variety of areas (literature, philosophy, politics, etc.); films, lectures, reports, and discussions. 220/320 will cover roughly 1750- 1870;/uni00a0221/321 will proceed from 1870-present. german 320-321 is reserved for majors and minors. students taking these courses toward the/uni00a0major or minor must take one credit of 311 concurrently. degree requirements f3 prerequisites german in the professional and business world babylon berlin: crime, sex, and the city grst 340 german cinema term: spring, fall credits: 4 this course, examining important german films since the days of the weimar republic, places special emphasis on the historical and social background of each film as well as the aesthetic qualities of the works. it thereby seeks to contribute to a better understanding of recent german history and of films as an artistic medium. filmmakers to be studied include friedrich murnau, fritz lang, leni riefenstahl, volker schlöndorﬀ , helma sanders-brahms, wim wenders, rainer werner fassbinder, and wolfgang becker. all films are subtitled; the course is taught in english. german studies 340 is reserved for majors and minors, who will do substantial portions of coursework in german. /uni00a0 degree requirements f5 prerequisites german in the professional and business world grst 342 the holocaust in text, image, and memory term: spring, fall credits: 4 examination of such topics as the origins and expressions of anti-semitism in central europe, the political events and structures of the holocaust, the reality of ghettos and concentration camps, the impact of technological modernization on the final solution, and resistance to the nazis. materials will include non-fictional texts, literature, art, and music. all materials and discussions in english. german 342 is reserved for majors and minors, who will do substantial portions of the work for the course in german. degree requirements f2 f9 grst 344 german myths and fairy tales term: spring, fall credits: 4 an introduction to german myths and fairy tales from the 19th century to the present day. students read original stories and legends and compare them to modern literary and visual adaptations. considering the ideological importance of the german forest; analyzing issues of gender, violence, fatness, and disability; and examining the reoccurring and hybrid figure of the siren, students turn a critical eye on the german literary tradition. the language of instruction is english. german studies 344 is reserved for majors and minors who will do substantial portions of coursework in german. degree requirements f2 f4 grst 348 topics in german literature term: spring, fall credits: 4 emphasis on a specific author, group of authors, or theme. course topics may vary, and students may repeat the course with a diﬀerent topic. the language of instruction is english. german studies 348 is reserved for majors and minors, who will do substantial portions of coursework in german. degree requirements f4 grst 409 topics in german cultural studies term: spring, fall credits: 4 intensive study of some aspect or theme of german literature, culture or society in german. may be taken more than once for credit with new topics. prerequisites german in the professional and business world babylon berlin: crime, sex, and the city grst 486 senior seminar term: spring credits: 4 an advanced, theoretical course for german majors toward the completion of the capstone project. the first half of the semester is dedicated to study of theoretical methods of literary analysis, the toolbox of cultural studies, and the protocols of archival research. the second half of the semester involves capstone writing and cohort workshopping of the capstone. all students are expected to present their capstone research project at the rhodes symposium. this course is taught and conducted in german. the format of instruction may vary. grst 495 honors tutorial term: fall credits: 4-8 honors tutorial. /uni00a0 grst 496 honors tutorial term: spring credits: 4-8 /uni00a0honors tutorial ams 110 pathways to cultural knowledge i term: fall credits: 4 as societies inherit and then redefine their own cultural realities, they also accumulate selective knowledge that is important in shaping their religious, political, and philosophical identities. but how is this cultural knowledge transmitted usefully and memorably to others? while reading an eclectic range of texts including biblical works, heroic epics, philosophical treatises, modern performance poetry, and more, we will explore varied communication strategies in oral storytelling, written manuscripts and papyri, printed texts, and even sign language and the internet. this multi- disciplinary approach opens a space for us to critically examine our own biases and to recognize the value and meaning in complex texts emerging from diverse cultures, religious perspectives, media, and time periods. this course is the first part of a yearlong sequence. the semester will be governed by two organizing principles. first, we will group texts according to their cultural and thematic contents, paying special attention not only to similarities among diﬀerent traditions but also to their important diﬀerences that make each text and tradition unique. second, we will regularly be introducing new theoretical concepts related to communication strategies as we build a toolset for interpreting works arising in a wide variety of cultural contexts and time periods. this course is also structured around fulfilling the f1 requirement. as such it will: • “engage students in a critical examination of the values they hold as individuals and their social and historical location” through exploration of “the complex legacies” of formative texts and traditions. as we proceed through the course, we will therefore endeavor to understand how these texts, traditions, and communication strategies generate meaning in their original context, but we will also emphasize (in both our class conversations and also our daily written reflections) their implications for our own values and activities on a personal level as they aﬀect us every day. • “oﬀer academically ‘sound and comprehensive’ exploration of biblical texts and traditions” as it engages students in “a critical examination of personal, social, and cultural values through the academic study of biblical literature and of traditions that are productively compared with it.” several of this semester’s texts are themselves integral parts of the biblical canon, but every text we will consider this semester has been selected in large part because it can help us to understand the historical context of those biblical texts, illustrate their reception in cultures beyond those of their earliest audiences, and/or examine traditions and values that often contrast with biblical perspectives. /uni00a0 degree requirements f1 ams 111 pathways to cultural knowledge ii term: spring credits: 4 as societies inherit and then redefine their own cultural realities, they also accumulate selective knowledge that is important in shaping their religious, political, and philosophical identities. but how is this cultural knowledge transmitted usefully and memorably to others? while reading an eclectic range of texts including biblical works, heroic epics, philosophical treatises, modern performance poetry, and more, we will explore varied communication strategies in oral storytelling, written manuscripts and papyri, printed texts, and even sign language and the internet. this multi- disciplinary approach opens a space for us to critically examine our own biases and to recognize the value and meaning in complex texts emerging from diverse cultures, religious perspectives, media, and time periods. this course is the second part of a yearlong sequence and builds upon the interpretive frameworks and theoretical tools we explored in the fall, especially those related to communication strategies and the transmission of cultural values. the course is also structured around fulfilling the f1 and f2i requirements. as such it will: • “engage students in a critical examination of the values they hold as individuals and their social and historical location” through exploration of “the complex legacies” of formative texts and traditions. as we proceed through the course, we will therefore endeavor to understand how these texts, traditions, and communication strategies generate meaning in their original context, but we will also emphasize (in both our class conversations and also our daily written reflections) their implications for our own values and activities on a personal level as they aﬀect us every day. • “oﬀer academically ‘sound and comprehensive’ exploration of biblical texts and traditions” as it engages students in “a critical examination of personal, social, and cultural values through the academic study of biblical literature and of traditions that are productively compared with it.” several of this semester’s texts are themselves integral parts of the biblical canon, but every text we will consider this semester has been selected in large part because it can help us to understand the historical context of those biblical texts, illustrate their reception in cultures beyond those of their earliest audiences, and/or examine traditions and values that often contrast with biblical perspectives. • provide one of the “initial steps in [each] student’s deliberate development as a writer,” emphasizing learning through “writing assignments that generate or respond to content.” course requirements will therefore involve informal reflections that engage daily with our reading assignments as well as three formal papers centered upon analyzing the various texts and traditions we are studying. we will also spend multiple class periods discussing aspects of the writing process and developing tools that might better our abilities to express ourselves in written form. finally, your last assignment of the semester will involve a wholesale revision of one of the three formal papers produced earlier in the term. taken together, these assignments and discussions centered around writing should not only help you personally to become a better writer, but also enhance your understanding of writing as a technology that aﬀects the ways that individuals think and disseminate information to other members of their communities. /uni00a0 degree requirements f1 f2i prerequisites pathways to cultural knowledge i ams 150 language study term: spring, fall credits: variable this course allows students to receive credit for studying languages not regularly oﬀered on campus. information concerning these languages is available from the chair of the department. ams 210 pathways to cultural knowledge iii term: fall credits: 4 this course continues the work of ancient mediterranean studies 110 and 111, which examined the wayssocieties have inherited and redefined their cultural realities, accumulating along the way knowledge andexperiences which shape their religious, political and philosophical identities. in ams 110, students focusedon how texts emerge diﬀerently according to their traditional and communicative contexts. in the secondsemester the focus shifted to examining how subsequent generations re-created, reinterpreted, at timescanonized, and at other times discarded parts of their received textual inheritance as they began to inter-act with larger literary, philosophical, and religious movements. ams 210 begins geographically in byzan-tium, about 900 miles east of ravenna, where dante died in in 1321, and about three hundred years earlieras the seljuk turks move westward into the territory of byzantium. our focus this semester will be the waysome cultures disappeared or nearly disappeared and how lost cultures reemerged. prerequisites: ams 110 and ams 111 or hum 101 and hum 102 degree requirements f1 ams 235 the other side of rome credits: 4 most roman history courses focus on political and military leaders–“great men” such as julius caesar, gnaeus pompeius, cicero, and augustus–and their accomplishments. this is owed in part to the limitations of our sources, and in part to our own bias for seeking out individual actors and agents of political change. but this course will have a diﬀerent focus. we will look at the “other side of rome”: those who were part of the roman empire but not of the ruling elite. these will include slaves, freedpersons, women, the poor, and the provincials at the edges of the roman world. we will examine the roles that these diﬀerent groups played in rome’s history and culture–gladiators, prostitutes, soldiers, authors, wives, and more. and we will consider not only how these marginalized groups were viewed and treated by the roman elite, but also how these groups viewed traditional roman society and culture. degree requirements f9 f3 ams 240 language acquisition and pedagogy term: spring, fall credits: 4 this course is a survey of a range of issues related to language acquisition and teaching. among the areas covered are instructional methodologies and approaches, second language acquisition theories, language skill development, language teaching and learning technology, communicative and cultural competency, and assessment. ams 245 texts and contexts term: spring, fall credits: 4 topics in greek and roman literature organized chronologically, thematically, generically, or by geographic region. topics might include literature of the fourth century bce, love and gender, the ancient novel, or alexandrian authors. the course aims to introduce students to the basic methods of reading and writing critically but with an emphasis on the special qualities of ancient texts (production and reception, e.g.). background in the cultures of greece and rome will be oﬀered as necessary to understand the texts in their cultural context. students may take this course more than once if topics change degree requirements f4 ams 250 serving gods: religion in ancient greece and rome term: spring, fall credits: 4 this course will use documents and material artifacts to reconstruct the beliefs and rituals of the traditional religions of greece and rome. the approach will focus on particular shared aspects of the sacred among the greeks and romans. topics will include greco- roman theology, sacrifice and its interpretation, hero cult, the afterlife, oracles and forms of prophecy, maintenance of sanctuaries, philosophical religion and emperor worship. degree requirements f1 ams 255 myth in ancient greece and rome term: spring, fall credits: 4 a study of the mythoi from ancient greece and rome as transmitted in a variety of multiforms in the literary and the plastic arts, including those from the ancient period and modern adaptations. the course aims to familiarize students with both the basic greek and roman myths as well as the major schools of myth interpretation. interpretative traditions to be covered may include those of the myth and ritual school, the psychoanalysts, and the structuralists. degree requirements f1 ams 260 poetry and performance term: spring, fall credits: 4 this course will examine the relationship between the evolution of poetic genres and the contexts of performance. the approach and range of topics will change from year to year. examples of topics include homeric poetry and the role of the oral tradition in the definition and maintenance of communities during the archaic period; lyric poetry and the function of the persona loquens in the polis; athenian tragedy and comedy as a reflection of the cultural, economic, and political concerns of attika and the greater greek-speaking world; roman comedy and the interaction between greek and roman cultural norms. students may take this course more than once if topics change. degree requirements f4 ams 265 special topics in ancient mediterranean studies term: spring, fall credits: 4 topics in ancient mediterranean/uni00a0studies vary by semester and instructor availability./uni00a0 certain topics may meet foundations requirements as indicated on the semester schedule of class oﬀerings./uni00a0 ams 270 ancient political economy term: spring, fall credits: 4 this course provides a broad survey of ancient political economy. the ancients played a very important role in the development of this area of inquiry: they not only invented the term, but were also the first to discover some of the most seminal economic concepts of the western tradition, such as the division of labor, marginal utility, and supply and demand. perhaps more importantly, they were the first to understand how essential these ideas were for promoting the common good. in addition to examining the economic policies and systems of the major city-states and nations of antiquity and the changes they underwent over time, the course will investigate the political economic thought of the greek and roman philosophers, such as xenophon, plato, aristotle, and cicero. degree requirements f3 ams 275 introduction to classical studies term: spring credits: 4 this course introduces students to the study of the ancient world and its documentary and non- literary domains. within the former domain, topics of study will include the nature of ancient written texts, scholia, lexica, grammars, commentaries, interpretive analyses, bibliographies, manuscript traditions, and modern scholarly resources. with regard to the non- literary sources of information, students will become familiar with the types of material artifacts used to study the cultures of ancient greece and rome and the theoretical approaches to the study. although students may take this course at any time, majors must take this course before they enroll in grs 475, which they will normally take in the fall semester of the senior year. course oﬀered in alternate years; scheduled for 2014-15. ams 280 african receptions of greek and roman poetry credits: 4 this course will study how artists of the african diaspora have translated, adapted, and re- envisioned the poetic works from the greek- and latin-speaking cultures of antiquity as vehicles to express their individual views, illuminate aspects of their cultures, and comment on the concerns and conflicts within their own communities and between their communities and external forces. degree requirements f4 f9 ams 283 introduction to study in europe, the mediterranean, and the near east term: spring credits: 1 this course prepares students to participate in latin 232: latin in rome, grs 305: travel-study in europe, the mediterranean, and the near east, the classical track of european studies, and other opportunities for travel-study, for example, archaeological field schools and trips to museum collections. this course generally focuses on one country or region (e.g. egypt, greece, italy, or turkey) each time it is oﬀered. weekly meetings will cover introductory material on a variety of topics that will prepare students for their travel-study experience. students will be expected to complete a number of relevant readings, participate in discussions, and attend lectures and other cultural activities. ams 285 classical myth and its reception in modern film credits: 4 this course focuses on the close reading of mythological texts from ancient greece and rome, with particular attention to their specific literary qualities and linguistic art. the course also employs reception studies as a means of literary interpretation. how do modern films understand and make use of our mythological inheritance, both explicitly and implicitly, in whole or in part? students will emerge from the course as critical, sensitive readers and viewers possessing refined analytical skills and a heightened awareness of the power of language. prerequisites: successful completion of or concurrent enrollment in hum 101/102, or consent of instructor. degree requirements f4 ams 290 the fall of the roman empire term: spring credits: 4 this course will explore the transformationsof the mediterranean world from the late third century to the seventh century c.e. majorthemes tobe discussed include the fall of the western roman empire, the barbarian invasions, thechristianization of the roman empire, the emergence of monasticism and the cult of thesaints,and the rise of islam. major characters will include, for example, constantine, augustine ofhippo,attila the hun, stilicho, benedict of nursia or muhammad. we will place these charactersagainst aconcrete social, geographical and archaeological context. degree requirements f3 ams 305 travel-study in europe, the mediterranean, and the near east term: summer credits: 4 this course oﬀers an intensive introduction to the material culture of ancient mediterranean and middle eastern countries. the course generally focuses on one country, e.g., egypt, greece, italy, or turkey) each time it is oﬀered. through visits to archaeological sites and museums, the course will cover the evolution of art, architecture, and other aspects of material culture beginning with the period of the earliest human presence and, depending on the region, working through societies of the first millennium ce. the course of travel and study generally lasts four weeks. if possible, students should enroll in at least one of the following courses as preparation for this course: art 220, 231, 318, 319, 320, history 205 (when appropriate). students may take this course more than once if the itinerary changes. ams 315 fieldwork in material culture term: summer credits: 2 this course allows students to receive credit for participating in an oﬀ-campus internship or field school under professional supervision in areas that pertain to the discovery, recovery, preservation, and study of artifacts from ancient or medieval european, mediterranean, and near eastern civilizations. ams 361 gis and mediterranean archaeology term: fall credits: 4 this course introduces students to the methods, theories, and practices associated with primary (field or lab) and secondary (library) research in archaeological survey with an emphasis on the use of information technologies, primarily geographical information systems (gis)./uni00a0 ams 474 introduction to senior seminar term: spring credits: 1 in the spring semesters of their junior years, majors in grs will prepare for the capstone experience by consulting with members of the faculty to develop topics of inquiry and outline programs of research that will serve as a focus for their work in the discipline both during their senior years and the summers before. prerequisites introduction to classical studies ams 475 senior seminar term: fall credits: 4 this course represents the capstone experience for all majors in grs. although the specific topic of study will vary from year to year depending on the interests and goals of the participants, students will engage in a significant scholarly investigation into some aspect of the ancient world. the students’ work must reflect an engagement with primary materials and their familiarity with and ability to use secondary resources. students are encouraged to select topics that reflect their interests and postgraduate plans and incorporate their work as majors and minors in fields other than grs. normally, the project will culminate in a research paper, but other products are possible, such as a creative work. generally, seniors will present the results of their work in an oral presentation for other students and faculty members at an event scheduled on campus or at a conference for undergraduate research. ams 476 senior seminar: dissemination term: spring credits: 1 in the spring semester of their senior years, majors in grs will complete their capstone experiences by working with faculty members on transforming their research into formats for public dissemination primarily as presentations for undergraduate conferences and symposia. they will be responsible for developing abstracts, adapting their projects, and presenting their research in public settings such as the undergraduate research and creative activity symposium (urcas) at rhodes or the sunoikisis undergraduate research symposium. ams 495 honors tutorial term: fall credits: 4 these courses are for students working on an honors project as described above. permission of the advisor is required for enrollment in these courses. ams 496 honors tutorial term: spring credits: 4 these courses are for students working on an honors project as described above. permission of the advisor is required for enrollment in these courses. gsst 200 introduction to gender and sexuality studies term: spring, fall credits: 4 an interdisciplinary course designed primarily for first and second year students. this course explores the construction of gendered ideologies from a variety of disciplinary perspectives. gsst 300 queer theory term: fall credits: 4 an introduction to queer theory as an interdisciplinary field of academic study. this course introduces students to key authors, texts, and debates in queer theory. this course is recommended for all gss students prior to gss 400, but is open to students in all academic disciplines. gsst 301 advanced research in gender studies credits: 1 in this advanced course, students will further develop existing individual research projects in gender and sexuality studies for publication, presentation at conferences, and other public dispersal. students will advance to this class after prior coursework in gss at rhodes, based on professor’s approval of projects already in process. group sessions with a small cohort every other week of the semester will support individual research. the final outcome of the course will be the submission of materials to public opportunities. prerequisites introduction to gender and sexuality studies gsst 400 feminist theory term: spring, fall credits: 4 an interdisciplinary seminar in contemporary feminist and queer thought for advanced students. students will examine the contributions of feminist scholars in fields including political theory, literary criticism, psychology, anthropology, sociology, and philosophy. junior or senior standing recommended. prerequisite: gsst 200 or the permission of the instructor. gsst 460 internship term: spring, fall credits: 1-4 a directed internship in which students integrate their academic study of gender or sexuality issues with practical experience in oﬀcampus organizations, agencies, or businesses. to be eligible, students must have a g.p.a. of 2.5 or higher. /uni00a0 degree requirements f11 hist 102 the bible and war term: spring credits: 4 an oft-quoted verse from the book of ecclesiastes 3:8 “a time for war, a time for peace,” speaks to one of the fundamental tensions in the bible: war or peace. this course will explore the various ideas of war espoused in the hebrew bible and new testament and how these ideas have let themselves to human violence throughout history. we will use the theme of war to investigate how people across time and within a wide range of diverse cultural contexts have engaged with jewish and christian sacred texts to make meaning and value in their world. students will examine the bible but also a variety of other texts whose authors have drawn inspiration from it. topics for our discussion will include: ideals of masculinity and femininity; debates about just wars; conscientious objectors; the crusades; religious civil wars in france; conquest of the americas; christian imperialism; the israeli-palestinian conflict; and current conflicts, among others. this course will count towards a history major or minor. degree requirements f1 hist 105 introductory seminars in history term: spring, fall credits: 4 history 105 courses are open to all students./uni00a0 each section focuses on a specific historical topic and fulfills one of the written communication requirements (f2i) under the foundations curriculum as well as the historical forces (f3) requirement./uni00a0 students may repeat these courses for credit toward the history major and minor if the topic is diﬀerent; students may count 2 courses at the 100 level toward the major or minor./uni00a0 possible topics include: "disease and epidemics," "british empire through film," "history of human reproduction," "terrorism, torture, and anti- colonialism,"/uni00a0"the supreme course in us history," "the two koreas," "martin luther king in historical context," and "the mongol world empire." degree requirements f2i f3 hist 165 topics in history: summer study term: summer credits: 4 introduction to selected periods in history taken during a maymester or other summer study, either at rhodes, the summer study in london program, or another course outside the traditional academic calendar taught by a rhodes faculty member./uni00a0 topics vary with instructor./uni00a0 may be repeated for credit when topics vary./uni00a0 foundation credits vary according to topic. hist 205 selected topics in history term: spring, fall credits: 4 introduction to selected periods in history. varies with instructor. may be repeated for credit when topics vary. degree requirements f3 hist 207 global environmental history term: spring credits: 4 this course is an introduction to the field of environmental history. what can our environment tell us about our past? how have natural resources shaped patterns of human life in diﬀerent regions of the world? what meanings have people attached to nature and how have those attitudes shaped their cultural and political lives? we will analyze the ecological context of human existence, with the understanding that the environment is an agent and a presence in human history. because environmental change often transcends national boundaries, this course places important subjects like disease, agriculture, forests, water, industrialization, and conservationism into a global context. this course includes a lab for field excursions. degree requirements f3 f11 global/comparative history environmental studies elective hist 209 natural disasters term: spring, fall credits: 4 by studying the evolution of people’s responses to “natural disasters,” this course helps students understand the politics of environmental change. the course begins by developing a conceptual vocabulary drawn from the interdisciplinary field of “disaster studies.” we then explore the governmental, economic, and social contexts and institutional responses to several catastrophic events -- such as volcanoes, hurricanes, earthquakes, floods, and fires -- to discover how they reshaped laws, public policy, and urban development. students will examine how the mass media has often misrepresented disasters thereby creating public perceptions which have a significant impact on policy. we will also consider how disasters are woven into the historical memories of various societies and used as reference points to understand both the past and the future. /uni00a0 degree requirements f3 f8 global/comparative history environmental studies elective urban studies elective hist 211 the ancient mediterranean term: fall credits: 4 major requirement: history of europe, period prior to 1500 this course is an introductory survey of the history of the ancient mediterranean from ca. 3000 b.c. to ca. a.d. 500 that focuses on the great civilizations of egypt, greece, rome, and the near east (e.g., assyria and persia.) each civilization had its distinctive character, and yet vigorous cultural exchanges within the area, and beyond, led to the assimilation, adaptation, and sometimes even rejection by one culture of the ideas and practices of another. thus, the course will track these interactions and examine their consequences for the historical development of mediterranean civilizations. also considered will be a rich variety of evidence that includes literary texts, inscribed documents, artifacts, coins, art, and architecture. (course oﬀered in alternate years.) degree requirements f3 hist 212 medieval world, 500-1500 term: fall credits: 4 major requirement: history of europe, period prior to 1500 from the fall of the roman empire in the west to the rise of islam in the east, the middle ages began with a series of fundamental transformations that would change the world. this course traces the foundational political, religious, social, and cultural developments of the period between 300 and 1500, in europe, north africa, and the middle east. particular attention will be paid to how factors such as class, gender, religious identity, and ethnicity shaped individuals’ experiences of the medieval world. /uni00a0 degree requirements f3 hist 213 renaissance and reformation europe term: spring credits: 4 major requirement: history of europe, period prior to 1500 this course begins by examining the changes, as well as the medieval carry-overs, that brought about the period known as the renaissance. the eﬀects of impersonal forces such as climate change and epidemics, the impact of the discovery of the americas, and a new understanding of human capabilities will be considered. the course then turns to a survey of the intellectual movements and of the religious, social, and political characteristics of european history from 1500 (the coming of the reformation) to 1714 (the height of french power under louis xiv.) the emphasis will fall upon those changes that prepared society for the transition to what is now considered the “modern” world. (course oﬀered in alternate years.) degree requirements f3 hist 214 modern europe credits: 4 major requirement: history of europe this course acquaints students with the major political, social, economic, and cultural forces that have shaped the european continent as we know it today. while following a chronological perspective and highlighting a familiar set of events--such as the french and industrial revolutions, imperialism, communism and fascism, the two world wars, the cold war, and the development of the european union--we will focus on a series of themes. we concentrate on the making of the nation, class, gender and race in the long 19th century, and the often tragic fate of these modern inventions in the 20th century. we trace the sometimes violent, complex, and interesting circumstances of the peoples who constructed these modern western notions. the successful completion of this course will substantially enrich not only your understanding of europe in the world today, but some of the central categories and values that underpin how we have come to structure our society and define ourselves. degree requirements f3 hist 215 enlightenment and revolution: europe, 1714-1815 term: spring, fall credits: 4 major requirement: history of europe the eighteenth century was an age of intellectual and political revolutions that destroyed what historians describe as the old regime.this course critically assesses the rhetoric, goals and legacy of the century’s key philosophic movement, the enlightenment. it surveys the development of the old regime in the eighteenth century and seeks to interpret the social, economic and intellectual forces that tended to undermine it. particular emphasis will be placed on the french revolution, the overthrow of the old regime, the reign of terror and the rise and fall of the napoleonic system in europe. degree requirements f3 hist 216 industrialism, nationalism, and imperialism: europe, 1815-1914 term: spring, fall credits: 4 major requirement: history of europe this course examines the impact of industrialization on the social, political, and intellectual life of europe. the combination of nationalist idealism and the realism of state power that produced the unifications of italy and germany will be critically examined. the course will also examine the nationalist and imperialist rivalries that drove the european states to the brink of war after the turn of the century. (course oﬀered in alternate years.) degree requirements f3 f8 hist 217 the age of extremes: european culture and society in the twentieth century term: fall credits: 4 major requirement: history of europe by focusing on the experiences of ordinary people and significant shifts in their values, we will study how europe evolved through what one historian has called an “age of extremes” in the twentieth century. central issues will include the experience and legacies of “total war,” daily life under nazi rule and in the communist countries of eastern europe, the psychological impact of the great depression, and the various ways in which people struggled to redefine themselves as europe faded from a position of world dominance. degree requirements f3 f8 hist 221 athenian democracy in crisis term: fall credits: 4 major requirement: history of europe, period prior to 1500 athens was one of the most successful and exceptional states in antiquity because it developed and sustained a liberal democracy at a time when monarchies and oligarchies dominated much of the world. as fascinating as it is to trace the developments that contributed to the adoption of democracy at athens in 511 bce, an even more fruitful enterprise, especially at a time when our own democracy is becoming increasingly more precarious and fractured, is to study the manifold changes in political, economic, and cultural life during the last third of the 5th century that led the athenians to take their democracy for granted and adopt undemocratic changes in their constitution. this course will thus concentrate on the tumultuous period from 431 to 399, beginning with the greatest "upheaval" of the age, the peloponnesian war, which witnessed civil war and political revolution, and ending with the trial and execution of one its greatest citizens, socrates. this period is particularly rich in primary sources, including thucydides' magisterial history, law- court speeches, comedies, tragedies, and inscriptions. while this course assumes no prior experience with greek history, mastering these sources is crucial for success in the course, especially during the running of the "reacting to the past" game, the threshold of democracy: athens 403 b.c. degree requirements f3 hist 222 fall of the roman republic term: fall credits: 4 major requirements: history of europe, period prior to 1500 rome's transition from republic to empire, when power shifted from the senate and people to asingle emperor, is one of the most well-known periods of roman history, involving a number oﬀamous characters: julius caesar, cicero, pompey, antony, and augustus. in this course, we willinvestigate the nature and causes of the fall of the roman republic. what was the republic, andwhy did it end? how did rome come to be ruled by emperors? focusing especially on the lastcentury bc, we will examine roman politics and society to find answers to a question that hasperplexed some of the greatest thinkers of the last two millennia: how does a proud andpowerful republic slip into one-man rule?in the process, we will problematize the study of the "fall", considering questions such as thefollowing: was the roman republic really so diﬀerent from the empire? what are thecontinuities between these two eras, and where does the break really occur? in our study of therepublic, how does our knowledge of what happens next - the empire - enhance and distort ourunderstanding of late republican events? degree requirements f3 hist 223 the fall of the roman empire term: spring credits: 4 this course will explore the transformations of the mediterranean world from the late third century to the seventh century c.e. major themes to be discussed include the fall of the western roman empire, the barbarian invasions, the christianization of the roman empire, the emergence of monasticism and the cult of the saints, and the rise of islam. major characters will include, for example, constantine, augustine of hippo, attila the hun, stilicho, benedict of nursia or muhammad. we will place these characters against a concrete social, geographical and archaeological context. degree requirements f3 hist 224 british empire and its enemies term: spring, fall credits: 4 major requirement: global/comparative history this course addresses some of the major developments of the british empire from the early 1600s to the 1980s. emphasis is on the changing nature of the empire, its role in britain’s rise and fall as a world power, the influence of empire on britain’s political, economic, and cultural development, and the imperial impact on britain’s colonies and possessions. attention is also directed at the many enemies that the empire created, both in britain and in the colonies. the course concludes by examining aspects of post-colonialism in britain and its former possessions. (course oﬀered in alternate years.) degree requirements f3 hist 225 modern britain term: spring, fall credits: 4 major requirement: history of europe this course will introduce students to some of the major historical developments in britain since 1688. the focus will be on political events, but some attention will also be paid to social, economic, religious, and intellectual developments. topics to be discussed include: glorious revolution of 1688-89; corruption and reform in eighteenth-century politics; origins, nature, and impact of industrialism; evolution of parliament and emergence of the oﬃce of prime minister; impact of the french revolution; reform and radical movements of the nineteenth century; imperialism; the british experience in world wars one and two; origins and nature of the welfare state; british society and politics since 1945; and the americanization of britain. (course oﬀered in alternate years.) degree requirements f3 hist 226 musical paris 1870-1940 term: fall credits: 4 major requirements: history of europe this course will examine of the relationship between french music and its political, social,and cultural context by focusing on paris as the center of new artistic developments in thelate nineteenth and early twentieth centuries. /uni00a0the course will provide an introduction tofrench cultural history, including artistic movements during this period, introducingstudents to musical composers such as fauré, debussy, ravel, satie, and stravinsky andhow they were situated within the events of their day. /uni00a0students will develop a vocabularyto describe and discuss musical works in general and of this period specifically. /uni00a0studentswill analyze musical works within the context of parisian life from 1870-1940. degree requirements f3 f5 hist 229 imperial russia term: fall credits: 4 major requirement: history of europe how and why did russia become the center of the world’s largest land empire only to collapse so suddenly in 1917? beginning with the emergence of rus and the development of the early muscovite state, this course delves into the russian imperial period, examining the growth of the russian empire and highlighting certain topics, including the quest for modernization; the relationship between russia and the rest of the world (both east and west); the beliefs, traditions, religion, and way of life of the russian people; the rise of radical movements; and the revolution that brought down the romanov dynasty. we will focus especially on aspects of russian culture: literature, painting, and music. (course oﬀered in alternate years.) degree requirements f3 hist 231 north american in the colonial and revolutionary eras term: spring credits: 4 major requirement: history of united states this course investigates british, french, spanish, african, and native american encounters in north america from the age of exploration through the early political development of the united states. major themes include the tensions between individual and community interests, the origins and development of slavery, the emergence of capitalism, religious diversity, and the american revolution. degree requirements f3 hist 232 the united states in the nineteenth century term: spring credits: 4 major requirement: history of united states this course examines major social, political, economic, and cultural changes in the nineteenth century, including u.s. relations with native north americans, antebellum reform, the civil war, reconstruction, and industrialization. major themes may include the rise and decline of sectionalism and transformations in gender and race relations, as well as questions of individualism and community, liberty and order. degree requirements f3 hist 233 the united states in the twentieth century term: spring, fall credits: 4 major requirement: history of united states this course investigates major social, political, cultural, and economic changes in the twentieth century, from progressivism through the end of the cold war. major themes may include the eﬀects of world war and economic depression on society, the united states’ changing role in the global community, the rise and fall of american liberalism, the vietnam war as watershed, and the emergence of cultural pluralism. degree requirements f3 f8 hist 239 new york and its peoples, past and present term: fall credits: 4 this course explores new york city by studying the migrants and immigrants who have settled there since its founding. it explores how migrants and immigrants change new york, how the city changes them, and the significance of ethnic diversity in the city's politics and culture. we will read scholarly writings, examine films and music as primary sources, take field trips to immigrant neighborhoods, and visit museums devoted to migration and immigration. at every opportunity, we will venture outside our classroom to learn about the city through direct observation. this course is part of the nyc internship study away fall semester program degree requirements f3 hist 242 african-american history term: fall credits: 4 major requirement: history of united states the experiences of african-american people in the united states can be described as a continuous quest for empowerment; this quest has been aﬀected by myriad factors (e.g., gender roles, class divisions, secular and non-secular ideologies, regionalism) in addition to racism. this course, through the use of secondary and primary material, historical documentaries, and critical analyses, will chart the historically complex journeys of african americans, from the impact of the african diaspora on colonial america to the black student sit-ins and the formation of the student non-violent coordinating committee in 1960, and beyond. degree requirements f3 f9 africana studies elective hist 243 the civil rights movement term: spring credits: 4 major requirement: history of united states this course examines the social, political, and economic climate of the 1940s through the 1960s, and considers how both blacks and whites were aﬀected. specifically, the course will focus on various organizations and the strategies they implemented which resulted in events such as the brown v. board of education case and the civil rights act of 1964. additionally, the course will analyze the subtle and not-so-subtle reactions to initiatives that allowed african americans to attain many of the rights and privileges that have become commonplace in today’s society. (course oﬀered in alternate years.) degree requirements f3 africana studies elective hist 247 the american south term: fall credits: 4 major requirement: history of united states this course examines the social, political, and cultural history of the south as a distinct region of the united states. the course will include discussion of the origins of a slave society, the culture of slavery and the old south, the civil war and reconstruction, political and cultural change in the new south, and the civil rights movement. degree requirements f3 hist 248 history of memphis term: fall credits: 4 major requirement: history of the united states the city of memphis has significantly shaped the broader experiences of people in the united states. this course provides an introduction to the major issues and themes that have formed the history of the city and its people. using a variety of sources, the course explores the significant political, social, economic, and cultural changes that have taken place in the region from the 18th century to the present day. degree requirements f3 hist 255 united states political history, 1896- 1960 term: fall credits: 4 major requirement: history of united states as the united states began its rise to the status of superpower in the 20th century, americans also began to fashion new political ideologies and policies to contend with changes in the expanding nation. students in this course will examine the origins of modern liberalism in the progressive era, its rise and expansion during the new deal, the challenges of 20th century conservatism, and political debates during world war ii and the cold war. in addition, the course will focus on changing campaign techniques, the importance of voting rights, and increased importance of international relations in american politics.(course oﬀered in alternate years) degree requirements f3 f8 hist 256 united states political history, 1960- present term: spring credits: 4 major requirement: history of united states what was the lasting legacy of “the sixties”? what was the “reagan revolution”? how did liberalism, one of the dominant ideologies of the 20th century america, get transformed into the “l” word in current political debates? this course will attempt to answer these and other questions surrounding modern american political history. along with the emergence of the new left and the new right, students will examine the influence of race in political debates, the arguments over the size and scope of american government, and the direction of american politics in the 21st century. (course oﬀered in alternate years.) degree requirements f3 f8 hist 261 colonial latin american term: fall credits: 4 major requirement: history of latin america this course surveys the history of latin america in the period before the revolutions of independence (before 1810). after studying the native american (principally aztec, inca, chibcha and maya) and european (spanish and portuguese) civilizations that shaped theformation of colonial latin american history, the conquest, the institutions and the social history/movements during this historical period will be addressed in a thematic fashion. degree requirements f3 f9 latin american studies elective hist 262 contemporary latin america term: spring credits: 4 major requirement: history of latin america this course surveys the history of modern latin america from the period of independence (1810- 1824) to the present, addressing the economic and social development of the latin american region. certain themes, such as religion, poverty, violence and foreign intervention will be covered in depth. feature films, recent literature and oral history testimony will serve as “tools” for understanding contemporary latin america. degree requirements f3 f9 latin american studies elective hist 267 modern mexico term: spring, fall credits: 4 major requirement: history of latin america this course is an introduction to the history of mexico and we will study that nation’s history from independence (the early 19th century) to the present. the course will move more or less in a chronological fashion with further focus on themes of importance (immigration, for example). (course oﬀered in alternate years.) degree requirements f3 latin american studies elective hist 271 africa before 1800 term: fall credits: 4 major requirement: history of africa/middle east; period prior to 1800 what is africa? what does africa's civilization tell us about global networks and system? how/uni00a0does the history of africa fit into that of the rest of the world? this course will answer these questions and map the general contours informing the continent’s history to 1800. significant themes include cultural practices, origin of humankind, voluntary and involuntary internal migration and settlement, technology and innovation, religious changes and transformation, farming and food production, diseases and healing, political organization, and slave and “legitimate” trades, among others. the course is structured to encourage active participation, and it will provide you with the research tools to enhance your critical thinking and writing skills./uni00a0 degree requirements f3 f9 africana studies elective hist 272 africa since 1800 term: spring credits: 4 major requirement: history of africa/middle east this course introduces students to contemporary africa's socio-cultural, economic, and political experiences. the course is not designed as a study of individual countries in africa; it is a theme- based course. significant themes include european colonialism and african nationalism, internal and external migration and settlement, social identities and cultural changes, technology and innovation, religious transformation, and diseases and healing, among others. in exploring themes and trends that dominate africa's contemporary storyline, we will learn quite a bit about a variety of countries on the continent. the course is structured to encourage active participation, and will equip you with research tools that are supposed to enhance your critical thinking and writing skills. degree requirements f3 f9 africana studies elective hist 273 disease and healing in africa term: spring credits: 4 this course examines diseases and healing in africa and africa's response to mental (psychotic) and physical (somatic) ills that plagued the continent from pre-history to mid-20th c. the course explores diﬀerent healing practices and allows us to study how africans have used science, religion, and cultural practices (such as witchcraft) to treat and protect themselves from diseases. the course also examines how state, power, and encounter influenced health and wellness. it is designed to extend our intellectual curiosity to non-western cultures and practices involving medicine and human bodies. degree requirements f3 hist 274 ghana and west africa's pasts in the black atlantic term: fall credits: 4 this course will be coupled with an overnight field trip to the north of the country, the origins for many people who were enslaved and then brought to the ghanaian coast for transport to the americas. student will also visit cape coast, the site for two unesco world heritage sites: the “slave castles” elmina castle and cape coast castle. this course provides an introduction to slavery in ghana and west africa and the atlantic slave trade out of west africa. the course uses ghana as a window to explore the history and material culture of slavery and the atlantic slave trade in west africa. it combines lectures, class discussions, documentaries, and field trips to sites of enslavement, slave markets and resistance to slavery and student analysis of contemporary sources. instead of presenting a comprehensive survey, covering every aspect of this vast subject, this course takes a topical approach by focusing on a selection of themes and issues that are crucial to developing an understanding of slavery in ghana and west africa and the slave trade across the atlantic. themes to be covered include slavery and nation building in west africa, african and european agency in slavery and slave trade; slavery and slave trade in framing the social structure of ghana and west africa; the legacies of slavery in ghana and west africa and the ways in which slavery is remembered in ghana and west africa. throughout the course, we will pay attention to the debilitating eﬀects of slavery and the slave trade on west africa and on its development. degree requirements f3 hist 275 the making of the modern middle east term: fall credits: 4 major requirement: history of africa/middle east this course is an introductory class to the history of the middle east from napoleon’s invasion of egypt in 1798 until the end of world war i. investigating the history of this period provides the necessary backdrop for understanding the intellectual vibrancy and political turbulence of the arab world in present day. the main question for consideration is which forces and what sort of transformations shaped the region over the course of the 19th and early 20th centuries. by exploring critical political, social, intellectual, and economic themes such as reforms, colonialism, arab nationalism, and the impact of zionism, we will identify the main internal and external forces and processes that shaped the modern middle east. the course also examines the way historical discourse is formed. degree requirements f3 f9 hist 276 re-making the twentieth-century middle east term: spring credits: 4 major requirement: history of africa/middle east this course examines the history of middle eastern states and societies from world war i to the present, including the arab countries as well as iran, israel and turkey. the course surveys the main political, social, economic, and intellectual currents of the 20th-century middle east and provides a basis for understanding both the domestic and international politics of the region. topics include imperialism, nationalism, state and class formation, religion, orientalism, women, the politics of oil, the arab-israeli conflict, the iranian revolution, the gulf war and 9/11 and its aftermath. degree requirements f3 f9 hist 277 modern islamic thought term: spring credits: 4 major requirement: history of africa/middle east this course oﬀers a broad overview of important intellectual movements and orientations in the modern and contemporary islamic world since the 19th/uni00a0century. it examines the views of muslim thinkers as they have faced numerous challenges and upheavals that emerged in the modern world. we will place these thinkers in the context of their socio-political settings and analyze their interpretations as they have struggled to preserve, adapt, or redefine islamic ideas in the face of changed conditions. some of the intellectual traditions we will investigate include: islamic modernist thought, progressive islam, islamic fundamentalism, jihadist thought, islamic feminism, and islam in america./uni00a0 degree requirements f1 africa/middle east f3 hist 281 east asia in the modern world term: fall credits: 4 major requirement: history of asia this course presents a survey of the modern experiences of five diﬀerent asian nations: china, japan, mongolia, korea, and vietnam. the emphasis will be on the period from world war ii to the present, to examine these diﬀerent countries’ experiences with nationalism, world war, civil war, revolution, and modernization along with the tenacity of tradition. the course also will examine the relationships among these nations and their significance in the modern world. degree requirements f3 asian studies elective hist 282 traditional china term: fall credits: 4 major requirement: history asia, period prior to 1500 beginning with the earliest evidence of human civilization in the region, this course traces the emergence of political states within china and their eventual unification into a single empire, an institution that persisted for millennia. throughout this process the development of literature, religion, philosophy, and material culture in chinese society all played a role in shaping the character of china today. degree requirements f3 f9 asian studies elective hist 283 modern china term: spring credits: 4 major requirement: history of asia for millennia the chinese viewed their emperor as the son of heaven and their empire as the center of the world. following columbus and the age of exploration, however, in the sixteenth- century europeans began arriving in china in unprecedented numbers, precipitating a crisis in chinese society. this course examines the dynamics of china’s relationship with the outside world and the subsequent transition that china made from empire to nation. modernization continued in the twentieth century and with it came social revolution and conflict with the united states, a legacy that continues to inform our relationship with the world’s most populous nation. degree requirements f3 f9 asian studies elective hist 287 traditional japan term: spring credits: 4 major requirement: history of asia this course presents an examination of japan’s history and culture from prehistoric times to the mid-nineteenth century./uni00a0/uni00a0 important themes will include japan’s creation of a unique culture through both isolation and cultural receptivity, the formation and preservation of enduring values, the structure and transformation of japanese society, the role of religions in japanese culture, japan’s “cult of aesthetics,” and the tensions between civilian and military rule through the rise of the samurai class and the ethics of bushidō (the “way of the warrior”). degree requirements f3 f9 hist 288 japan since 1800 term: spring credits: 4 major requirement: history of asia this course is designed to provide the students with a general understanding of japan’s history since 1800. topics in this course include general issues in the process of modernization such as industrialization, construction of mass culture, development of science and technology, and modern formation of everyday life. this course also focuses on particular issues in modern japanese history such as the impact of the west, colonialism and imperialism, (post) war and democracy. although this course is a general survey, it intends to challenge the constructed images of japanese history and culture. for this purpose, issues on trans-national and trans- cultural history will be considered throughout the course. degree requirements f3 f9 asian studies elective hist 293 ancient and medieval india term: fall credits: 4 major requirement: history of asia, period prior to 1500 this course explores india from the era of the indus civilization through the death of the mughal emperor aurangzeb in 1707 ce. topics include the harappa culture, aryan migrations and emergence of hinduism, gangetic culture and rise of the mauryan and gupta empires, islamic invasions and creation of the delhi sultanate, and the vijayanagar empire. the course concludes with a close examination of the rise and fall of the mughal empire, one of the world’s greatest empires. considerable attention will also be devoted to religious, social, and cultural developments, including the evolution of hinduism, the caste system, islamic culture in india, religious reform movements, and architecture. (course oﬀered in alternate years.) degree requirements f3 asian studies elective hist 294 modern india term: spring credits: 4 major requirement: history of asia this course surveys the history of south asia following the collapse of the mughal empire in the early eighteenth century through the post-colonial period of the late twentieth century. focus is on political, religious, and socio-economic developments such as the post-mughal political order; the origins and nature of the british raj; nationalism and the struggle for independence; religious revival and political identity; partition and its aftermath; and the post-colonial order in india, pakistan, and bangladesh. (course oﬀered in alternate years.) degree requirements f3 asian studies elective hist 300 the historian's craft: methods and approaches in the study of history term: spring, fall credits: 4 this course introduces prospective history majors and minors to the experience of how historians perform their craft. each seminar will address research methods, historical writing, and interpretive analysis. students will be introduced to historiography, the use of primary sources, and ethical issues in writing history. course work will culminate in an original research paper. an oral presentation will also be required of all students. degree requirements f2i hist 305 advanced seminar on special topics term: spring, fall credits: 4 advanced study of selected periods and topics in history. varies with instructor. may be repeated for credit when topics vary. prerequisite: sophomore status hist 307 nature and war term: spring, fall credits: 4 major requirement: global/comparative history this course investigates how wars have shaped the natural environment and how nature has shaped war in the modern era. more than simply a look at the ravages of war on nature, this course considers the complex relationship between humans and the natural world. the various topics we will consider include chemical and biological warfare, repairing embattled landscapes, the growing military-industrial complex, disposing of nuclear waste, and the increasing number of conflicts over natural resources. students will learn how to critically assess the ecological impact of war, as well as its societal and political repercussions. (course oﬀered in alternate years.) prerequisite: sophomore status hist 311 the rise and fall of athens term: spring, fall credits: 4 major requirement: history of europe, period prior to 1500 this course oﬀers a comprehensive survey of the history of athens from the age of solon and the birth of democracy in the 6th century bce to the tumultuous post-peloponnesian war period (404- 399), which saw the collapse of the athenian empire, tyranny and foreign occupation, and the execution of its greatest citizen, socrates. particular attention will be paid to the major political, social, and cultural developments, as we try to understand the factors that contributed to the growth and decline of athenian civilization. among the many themes and topics we will examine are: the theory and practice of athenian democracy; political dissent; imperialism and the athenian empire; the rhetoric of war; work and leisure; the position of slaves, foreigners, and women in athenian society; classical art and architecture; and tragedy as a “civic discourse.” (course oﬀered in alternate years.) prerequisite: sophomore status hist 312 the fall of the roman republic term: spring, fall credits: 4 major requirement: history of europe, period prior to 1500 rome’s transition from republic to empire, when power shifted from the senate and people to a single emperor, is one of the most wellknown periods of roman history, involving a number of famous characters: julius caesar, cicero, pompey, and augustus. in this course, we will investigate the nature and causes of the fall of the roman republic. what was the republic, and why did it end? how did rome come to be ruled by emperors? focusing especially on the last century bc, we will examine roman politics and society to find answers to a question that has perplexed some of the greatest thinkers of the last two millennia: how does a proud and powerful republic fall into one-man rule? in the process, we will problematize the study of the “fall,” considering questions such as the following: was the roman republic really so diﬀerent from the empire? what are the continuities between these two eras, and where does the break really occur? (course oﬀered in alternate years.) prerequisite: sophomore status hist 313 the roman empire and late antiquity term: spring, fall credits: 4 major requirement: history of europe, period prior to 1500 this course studies the end of the ancient world and the emergence of the middle ages. we start with the roman empire at the peak of its power and proceed to study its dramatic crisis, transformation and eventual fall. the barbarian invasions, the diﬀusion of christianity, the establishment of a powerful catholic church, the emergence of new artistic traditions, and the rise of islam are some of the themes covered in this wide-ranging survey. students will have the opportunity to meet and understand characters such as constantine, attila the hun, augustine of hippo, justinian and muhammad. (course oﬀered in alternate years.) prerequisite: sophomore status hist 320 modern jewish thought term: fall credits: 4 history of europe beginning with the heretic spinoza, we’ll examine the giants of jewish thought—religious reformers, philosophers, writers, and theologians wrestling with the challenges of modernity. topics will include: the essence of judaism; the nature of law; religion and the state; jewish understandings of god and of evil; the status of women and non-jews; and the legacy of the holocaust. we’ll discuss the jewish enlightenment; reform, orthodox, conservative and other jewish denominations; zionism and israel; jewish existentialism and the meaning of life; jewish philosophical and theological responses to the holocaust; and jewish feminism. pre-requisite: sophomore status hist 321 history of existentialism term: spring credits: 4 major requirement: history of europe an examination of prominent existentialists from the 19th and 20th centuries. issues include the idea that human beings’ deepest desire is for meaning in their lives, and that the primary issue in human life is whether and how we own up to this. same as phil 360. prerequisite: sophomore status /uni00a0 degree requirements f1 history of europe hist 327 germany at war term: spring, fall credits: 4 major requirement: history of europe this course explores the ways in which war has shaped modern germany. students examine the wars of german unification in the nineteenth century, the two world worlds in the twentieth century, and the hostilities between east and west germany during the cold war. our concern is not with tactics, battle history, or the deeds of great generals. rather we consider the strains that war caused in germany society, including the tensions between democracy and authoritarianism, the pressures of industrial might and socialist unrest, and conflicting notions of class, race, and citizenship. students will become acquainted with how war serves as a lever of change in the making of a modern state. (course oﬀered in alternate years.) prerequisite: sophomore status hist 342 slavery in the united states term: fall credits: 4 major requirement: history of united states the purpose of this course is to attain a fundamental knowledge of one of the most complex and controversial experiences in united states history. this course will examine various social, economic, and political factors in an attempt to explain why slavery developed as it did. also, because slavery remained in the united states over such a long period (approximately 240 years), we will discuss how it changed over time. (course oﬀered in alternate years.) prerequisite: sophomore status hist 345 civil rights in memphis term: spring, fall credits: 4 major requirement: history of the united states this seminar will examine the origin, growth and development of the civil rights movement in memphis. using, music, documentaries, oral histories and secondary sources, students will consider the various political, social, cultural and economic dynamics that led to the creation of a movement in the bluﬀ city. additionally, the course will focus on various organizations and individuals, and will seek to analyze the strategies they implemented in the pursuit of greater freedom. students will also assess reactions to the movement in memphis, and the complex legacy citizens of the city continue to contend with. prerequisite: sophomore standing hist 351 united states constitutional history to 1865 term: fall credits: 4 major requirement: history of united states this course examines american constitutionalism from the colonial era through the civil war. topics include british constitutionalism, american revolutionary ideology, the constitutional convention, the early nineteenth-century supreme court’s exercise of judicial review, and the new republic’s attempts to deal with such issues as federalism, the separation of powers, the government’s role in an expanding economy, and the fate of slavery in new territories. in contrast to a constitutional law course, this class is more concerned with how american constitutionalism both shaped and responded to larger political and social developments, and less concerned with the evolution of constitutional doctrine in and of itself. (course oﬀered in alternate years.) prerequisite: sophomore status hist 352 united states constitutional history since 1865 term: fall credits: 4 major requirement: history of united states this course examines american constitutionalism from the reconstruction period to the present. in particular, the course focuses on the supreme court’s interpretation of the constitutional issues surrounding reconstruction and civil rights, industrialization and economic expansion, the rise of national regulatory power, and the expansion of individual rights. in contrast to a constitutional law course, this class is more concerned with how american constitutionalism both shaped and responded to larger political and social developments, and less concerned with the evolution of constitutional doctrine in and of itself. (course oﬀered in alternate years.) prerequisite: sophomore status hist 363 history of u.s.-latin american relations term: spring credits: 4 major requirement: history of latin america this course provides an examination of the history of united states - latin american relations, beginning with tensions created by the latin american wars for independence (1810-1824). u.s. priorities, dating from the monroe doctrine of 1823, are studied in light of specific policies and actions taken by the u.s. in the region. specifically, the mexican-american war, the spanish- american war, the good neighbor and the alliance for progress will be examined in depth. prerequisite: sophomore status degree requirements latin american studies elective hist 364 history of religion in latin american term: spring credits: 4 major requirement: history of latin america this course examines the history of religion and religious tradition in latin america, beginning with an analysis of pre-columbian religious history and study of the imposition of christianity with the arrival of the spaniards and portuguese. syncretic identity, politics and religion and the recent growth of evangelical protestantism in latin america will be some of the major themes addressed. (course oﬀered every third year.) prerequisite: sophomore status degree requirements latin american studies elective hist 365 infinite border: the united states and mexico in historic perspective term: spring credits: 4 major requirement: global/comparative history this course is designed as an introduction to historical awareness, historical thinking, and historical methodology. our objective is to understand how the history of the border (the border separating the united states and mexico) has shaped political, economic, historic and cultural realities, for centuries, at a place that’s neither fixed nor clear. students will study primary documents, read essays/literary accounts, and view films to arrive at a more complete understanding of the history, tragedy and possibility of the border. prerequisite: sophomore status degree requirements global/comparative history latin american studies elective hist 375 islamic history and civilization term: spring, fall credits: 4 major requirement: history of africa/middle east, period prior to 1500 this course is a thematic introduction to many of the events, figures, texts and ideas that have been central to islamic thought and identity over the centuries. while we will study many major historical events, particularly in the early centuries of the islamic era, the course is not intended as a comprehensive historical survey; instead, we will focus on some of the pivotal moments that have been most meaningful in the eyes of later generations of muslims. (course oﬀered in alternate years.) prerequisite: sophomore standing degree requirements f1 hist 385 nomads of inner asia term: fall credits: 4 major requirement: history of asia, period prior to 1500 this course examines the history of the pastoral nomadic peoples who have inhabited the eurasian steppe region since early times, with particular attention paid to the creation of nomadic empires and their relations with sedentary neighbors in china, europe, and the middle east. the course will focus on the histories of the scythians, xiongnu, huns, turks, and mongols. prerequisite: sophomore status degree requirements asian studies elective hist 389 the vietnam war term: spring, fall credits: 4 major requirement: global/comparative history the vietnam war remains a challenging subject. the profound impact that it had on the major combatant nations (vietnam and the united states) continued to be felt long after the war had concluded. this course examine the vietnam war through many lenses – social, cultural, and political – in an eﬀort to gain a holistic understanding of this important and defining historical experience. we will approach the subject from multiple perspectives: not only those of the major combatants but also those of other important “players” such as the people’s republic of china, the soviet union, and the neighboring nations of southeast asia. in addition to a consideration of the war itself we will examine the causes of the conflict (including a discussion of french colonization, japanese occupation, rising nationalism in southeast asia, and conflicting notions of vietnamese nationalism), the war’s role in global politics and the cold war, and its longterm consequences. prerequisite: sophomore standing degree requirements asian studies elective hist 391 gandhi term: spring, fall credits: 4 major requirement: history of asia this course explores the life and thought of mohandas gandhi. it traces his transformation from an insecure hindu aping british culture to a self-confident indian leading a nationalist revolt that captivated the world. this transformation is used to examine larger currents in indian history, such as the nature of cultural imperialism, the emergence of hindu nationalism, and the story of india’s independence movement. attention is also directed at gandhi’s views on hindu-muslim relations, the emergence of pakistan, and plight of the socalled untouchables. the origins, nature, and problems of his theory of non-violent resistance are also explored. the course concludes with a brief examination of what happened to gandhi’s ideas after indian independence. (course oﬀered in alternate years.)/uni00a0 prerequisite: sophomore status degree requirements asian studies elective hist 395 the imperial idea term: spring, fall credits: 4 major requirement: global/comparative history the past two decades have witnessed an explosion of scholarly interest in european imperialism as a cultural and intellectual phenomenon. this course examines some of main currents of this trend, focusing on the modern period and the british empire, which has drawn the lion’s share of attention. the course will begin by examining how leading intellectuals in europe and its colonies engaged the idea of empire; the authors we will read may include john locke, j. g. herder, edmund burke, j. s. mill, george orwell, and frantz fanon. after this, the course will turn to critical studies of empire emanating from those engaged in literary discourse theory and postcolonial studies. (course oﬀered in alternate years.) prerequisite: sophomore status hist 405 advanced seminars on special topics term: spring, fall credits: 4 advanced research seminars in selected topics in history. varies with instructor. may be repeated for credit when topics vary. prerequisite: sophomore status hist 421 representing racism in french literature and culture: the jewish question term: spring credits: 4 this course will explore the rich history of jewish representations within and contributions to french literature and culture. the class will consider how french jews served as incubators of cultural modernity. france was the first country in europe to emancipate jews from their ghettos, oﬀering jews civil rights and civic equality. but at the same time, france was a crucible for the development of modern anti-semitism. jews appear as characters in novels, hosts of intellectual salons, as actors on the french stage, as icons of financial capitalism, as examples of the limits and possibilities of immigration, integration and even assimilation, as authors and intellectuals, as quintessentially french and other to france. we will navigate these tensions through literature, art, film, and in their diverse historical contexts. prerequisite: sophomore standing degree requirements f4 f9 hist 427 the great war term: spring, fall credits: 4 major requirement: global/comparative history this course explores the comprehensive impact of the first world war from a global perspective. we will examine how aspects of the international system led to the outbreak of war in august 1914, the experience of war around the world, interactions between civilians and soldiers, the tensions between minorities and authorities, atrocities and genocide, and the attempt to establish a lasting peace in 1919. central to the course will be the ways in which the great war shaped the twentieth century. (course oﬀered in alternate years.) prerequisite: sophomore status hist 428 fascist europe, 1918-1945 term: spring, fall credits: 4 major requirement: history of europe this seminar investigates one of the most tumultuous eras in european history by exploring the political and cultural development known as “fascism.” radicalized by world war and depression, adherents of this new political philosophy gained control of several european countries and transformed them from liberal democracies to totalitarian states. concentrating on culture and society, we will explore why and how such groups came to power in countries including italy and germany, what fascists believed, the elements of their programs, and the legacies they left behind. (course oﬀered in alternate years.) prerequisite: sophomore status degree requirements f8 hist 429 europe since 1945 term: spring, fall credits: 4 major requirement: history of europe this course examines various aspects of european culture, politics, and society since world war ii. in particular, we investigate the legacies of war and holocaust; the creation and collapse of cold war era communism; europe’s relations with the rest of the world through decolonization, immigration, and globalization; and multiple challenges to western value systems. students are expected to read numerous works of historical scholarship, write a substantial analytical essay, participate actively in class discussion, and give oral presentations in class. (course oﬀered in alternate years.) prerequisite: sophomore status hist 430 cold war culture in europe term: fall credits: 4 this course examines the cold war -- the ideological, economic, and geopolitical struggle between capitalism and communism after world war ii -- by exploring how it shaped the daily lives, perceptions, attitudes, and artistic expression of people across the european continent. rather than focusing on the us and ussr, we will think about the lived experience of a range of europeans on both sides of the “iron curtain” who found themselves caught in the middle of the twentieth century’s great power struggle. we will use the story of the berlin wall as a touchstone woven throughout the course as a way to understand what the cold war meant to people in concrete terms. prerequisite: sophomore standing. /uni00a0 hist 434 the early republic of the united states, 1789-1846 term: spring, fall credits: 4 major requirement: history of united states this seminar examines the political, social, and cultural history of the united states from the adoption of the constitution in 1789 through 1846. particular attention is given to the constitution- making the politics, religious revivalism and social reform, the formation of an american culture, the rise of northern capitalism, and the rise of sectionalism. (course oﬀered in alternate years.) prerequisite: sophomore status hist 435 the american civil war and reconstruction era, 1846-1877 term: spring, fall credits: 4 major requirement: history of united states this seminar will investigate the political, social, and constitutional developments surrounding the american civil war. topics include the development of antebellum society in the north and south, the rise of sectional political tensions, the social impact of the war on black and white americans, and post-war attempts to reconstruct the social, political, and constitutional order. (course oﬀered in alternate years.) prerequisite: sophomore status hist 436 the origins of modern america, 1877- 1918 term: spring, fall credits: 4 major requirement: history of united states this seminar deals with the social, economic, political, and constitutional development of the united states from the reconstruction era through the end of world war i. topics include the rise of a corporate capitalist economic order, the creation of a post-reconstruction southern identity, tensions between black and white americans, the united states’ involvement in europe’s great war, and the rise of the national regulatory state. (course oﬀered every third year.) prerequisite: sophomore status hist 439 recent history of the united states term: spring, fall credits: 4 major requirement: history of united states this seminar examines the evolution of american society since 1945. special attention is given to the cold war, political developments, and the cultural transformation of the 1960s and 1970s, and the resurgence of conservatism. (course oﬀered in alternate years.) prerequisite: sophomore status hist 440 american noir term: fall credits: 4 in the 1950s, french film critics used the term film noir to describe a genre of black-and-white hollywood productions from the forties and fifties that focused on darker themes of american life. inspired by hard-boiled detective fiction and the anxiety of the post-world war ii era, these movies reflected themes that were at odds with other notions of community and american beneficence. this course will use hard-boiled detective fiction and film noir to understand american history from the 1920s until today. the cultural products of american noir will be used to discuss american violence, the great depression, gendered politics, the cold war, race relations, and other topics. prerequisite: sophomore status hist 447 african american activism term: spring, fall credits: 4 major requirement: history of united states this course is a survey of african american activism in the united states from 1830 to the middle of the twentieth century. during the semester, we will cover a range of issues and topics, many of which will challenge traditional notions of what constitutes “activism”. the course is primarily structured chronologically, which means that we will cover several dominant themes of african american history, such as resistance to slavery, life in the jim crow south, racial violence, black institution building, cultural responses to oppression, and the beginning years of the civil rights movement. throughout the course, we will use primary documents, books, oral histories, music and websites to further illumine the themes, people and events that make up the content of the course. in our explorations, it is important to remember at least two points: first, that there has always been a movement for black self-determination, participation and recognition in american society, in short, a civil rights movement; and second, that the record of african american sources must be read with this in mind. (course oﬀered in alternate years.) prerequisite: sophomore status degree requirements africana studies elective hist 449 collecting memphis histories term: spring credits: 4 major requirement: history of the united states memphis is one of the most fascinating cities in the united states, with a rich and complex history that has not yet been fully explored. in this class, students have an opportunity to help tell that story by conducting oral histories with community members and using them as the foundation for an extended research paper. additionally, students will gain a more general familiarity with the oral history process. how and why do historians conduct them? what makes them good or bad? how can we eﬀectively use oral histories in our scholarship? by examining these questions (and others) in a memphis-specific context, students will both enrich their understanding of the historian’s process and significantly add to the historical record of rhodes’ home city. prerequisite: sophomore standing hist 456 cold war america term: spring credits: 4 major requirement: history of united states this course surveys the united states’ involvement in the cold war and how conflict with the soviet union shaped postwar international aﬀairs, domestic politics, and american culture society. students will learn about the rise of the soviet-american global rivalry and how this competition played itself out in diﬀerent theatres. readings will cover the growth of tensions over issues like the truman doctrine or communist control of vietnam, as well as cold war nuclear politics. further, the course will examine cold war culture in the united states and discuss issues of consensus and dissent in american society. (course oﬀered every third year.) prerequisite: sophomore status hist 457 the history of hiv/aids term: spring credits: 4 hiv (human immunodeficiency virus) has drastically changed the landscape of public health, medical science, and human sexuality and community since the virus was first identified in 1984. what came before this moment of scientific discovery, and what followed it? this course explores the history of hiv and the illness it causes, aids (acquired immune deficiency syndrome), from its probable origins in the belgian congo to its contemporary impact in the united states and around the globe. in addition to histories of hiv/aids, students will examine primary sources by public health and science professionals, safe sex advocates, hiv/aids activists, politicians, queer theorists, artists, and writers that demonstrate that hiv/aids has a history and is connected in myriad complex ways to issues including colonialism, globalization, sex work, lgbtq identities, racism, religion, healthcare access, and economic inequality. assigned readings will address hiv/aids around the world, but the final outcome will be for students to write an original work of historical research focused on memphis or the u.s. south. /uni00a0 prerequisite: sophomore standing degree requirements f8 f9 gender and sexuality studies elective hist 460 internship term: spring, fall credits: 4 on an individual basis and in conjunction with career services, students can receive internship credit for work in various professional settings. internships have been arranged in the past with a variety of local law firms, non-profit agencies, government agencies, and area corporations. the typical internship experience, in conjunction with career services' internship class, receives four academic credits. to enroll, students must be approved in advance by the instructor and career services. (does not fulfill the requirements of the major or minor. taken pass-fail only.) degree requirements f11 hist 461 internship term: spring, fall credits: 2 directed internship in law, business, government, or the non-profit sector. to enroll, students must be approved in advance by the instructor and the oﬃce of career services. (does not fulfill the requirements of the major or minor. taken pass-fail only.) prerequisite: sophomore status hist 481 cold war in east asia term: fall credits: 4 major requirement: history of asia by reexamining the history and politics of the cold war in east asia, this course aims to broaden our understanding of post ww ii and contemporary east asian society and culture. instead of following the conventional interpretation of the cold war as ideological and political conflicts between the united states and the soviet union, this course focuses on how major historical changes in east asia – japan’s surrender in 1945, mao’s communist china, two “hot wars” (the korean war and the vietnamese war) – shaped ideology oriented socio-cultural spaces and regulated everyday life in east asia. another task of this course is to relate the history of the cold war to contemporary issues in east asia such as the rise of china, nuclear crisis in north korea and post- cold war east asian regional community. prerequisite: sophomore status degree requirements asian studies elective hist 485 senior seminar term: spring, fall credits: 4 the senior seminar is an examination of important themes and issues in the study and writing of history, as seen through selected representative works drawn from diverse fields of historical investigation. emphasis will be on reading and discussion, with both written analyses and oral presentations required. (open only to senior history majors.) hist 490 directed research term: spring, fall credits: 4 under the direct supervision of a faculty member, a student may pursue a research project of his/her own design. the student must produce a substantive research paper in which he/she engages substantially with primary sources. the paper should result in either a conference presentation or submission for publication. this course can substitute for one of the 400-level courses required for the major, but may not be repeated for credit. must be arranged between a faculty member and a student. prerequisite: sophomore standing prerequisites the historian's craft: methods and approaches in the study of history hist 495 honors research term: spring, fall credits: 4 must have departmental approval before undertaking honors research. (does not fulfill the requirements of the major or minor.) prerequisites the historian's craft: methods and approaches in the study of history hist 496 honors research term: spring, fall credits: 4 must have departmental approval before undertaking honors research. (does not fulfill the requirements of the major or minor.) prerequisites the historian's craft: methods and approaches in the study of history hist 497 history mentoring practicum term: fall credits: 2 this practicum experience allows advanced history majors to provide mentoring in historical methodology, discipline-specific modes of historical writing, and community building activities to students history 105, the department’s introductory topics seminars which enroll first and second year students./uni00a0 mentors will hold oﬃce hours in order to provide 105 students with feedback and assistance in conceptualizing, researching, and writing historical essays which conform to the department’s specific expectations about historical scholarship./uni00a0 at the end of the semester, mentors will write a paper reflecting on their experience and providing advice for future mentors. prerequisites the historian's craft: methods and approaches in the study of history hist 498 research assistantship in history term: fall credits: 2 history research assistants assist faculty members in a variety of ways including conducting bibliographical and archival research, copy editing, acquiring copyright permissions, conducting oral histories, and other tasks related to the production of faculty publications.prerequisite: sophomore standing prerequisites the historian's craft: methods and approaches in the study of history hum 101 the search for values in the light of western history and religion term: spring, fall credits: 4 the search for values in the light of western history and religion is an interdisciplinary study of the ideas, beliefs, and cultural developments that have formed western culture. the first two courses of the sequence are taken in the fall (humanities 101) and spring (humanities 102) semesters of the first year. in these courses, students examine original documents in translation from the history and literature of the israelites, the greeks, the romans, and the early christians. selected texts from the hebrew bible are read and discussed in conjunction with the ideas and themes of mesopotamian and greek culture. students study the gospels and selected letters from the new testament in conjunction with hellenistic and roman history, life, and thought. in the third semester of the sequence, students trace the roles of biblical and classical heritages in the shaping of the values, character, and institutions of western culture and its understanding of self and world. to this end, they read and discuss selections from the works of philosophers, theologians, political theorists, scientists, and literary artists from the renaissance to the present. courses in the second year are organized by discipline or other theme. choices include biology, classical studies, history, literature, music, philosophy, politics, and religious studies. degree requirements f1 hum 102 the search for values in the light of western history and religion term: spring, fall credits: 4 the search for values in the light of western history and religion is an interdisciplinary study of the ideas, beliefs, and cultural developments that have formed western culture. the first two courses of the sequence are taken in the fall (humanities 101) and spring (humanities 102) semesters of the first year. in these courses, students examine original documents in translation from the history and literature of the israelites, the greeks, the romans, and the early christians. selected texts from the hebrew bible are read and discussed in conjunction with the ideas and themes of mesopotamian and greek culture. students study the gospels and selected letters from the new testament in conjunction with hellenistic and roman history, life, and thought. in the third semester of the sequence, students trace the roles of biblical and classical heritages in the shaping of the values, character, and institutions of western culture and its understanding of self and world. to this end, they read and discuss selections from the works of philosophers, theologians, political theorists, scientists, and literary artists from the renaissance to the present. courses in the second year are organized by discipline or other theme. choices include biology, classical studies, history, literature, music, philosophy, politics, and/uni00a0religious studies. degree requirements f1 hum 201 the search for values in the light of western history and religion term: spring, fall credits: 4 the search for values in the light of western history and religion is an interdisciplinary study of the ideas, beliefs, and cultural developments that have formed western culture. the first two courses of the sequence are taken in the fall (humanities 101) and spring (humanities 102) semesters of the first year. in these courses, students examine original documents in translation from the history and literature of the israelites, the greeks, the romans, and the early christians. selected texts from the hebrew bible are read and discussed in conjunction with the ideas and themes of mesopotamian and greek culture. students study the gospels and selected letters from the new testament in conjunction with hellenistic and roman history, life, and thought. in the third semester of the sequence, students trace the roles of biblical and classical heritages in the shaping of the values, character, and institutions of western culture and its understanding of self and world. to this end, they read and discuss selections from the works of philosophers, theologians, political theorists, scientists, and literary artists from the renaissance to the present. courses in the second year are organized by discipline or other theme. choices include biology, classical studies, history, literature, music, philosophy, politics, and religious studies. degree requirements f1 intd 165 introduction to practice of mindfulness credits: 2 in this course, we will explore techniques for the cultivation of mindfulness and compassion. students in this class will practice these skills throughout the semester and will learn about their philosophical and physiological aspects. we will consider the roles of compassion and mindfulness in relationship to ourselves, to others, and to the rhodes, memphis, and global communities. (2 credits) intd 225 geographic information systems (gis) term: spring credits: 4 this course introduces students to geographic information systems (gis) through the analysis of spatial data. students use deductive reasoning and logic to interpret data, draw conclusions based on numerical and spatial data, learn spatial statistics, and examine the diﬀerent ways to represent data. students also learn to construct, run and apply spatial models. an emphasis is made on the application of gis to real-world situations. degree requirements f6 intd 300 leadership, vocation, and career term: spring credits: 2 this course encourages and equips juniors and seniors to think about the overlapping and intersecting concepts of leadership, vocation, and career. we will do so by discussing readings on relevant topics and by hearing the stories of memphis leaders, who will regularly visit the class to discuss their own personal journeys. comparing, contrasting, and connecting these concepts and stories will be the primary purpose of the course, as student begin to launch their own careers upon graduation. in addition, the course will emphasize professional etiquette and communication, as well as help students to consider their own strengths and interests. intd 301 pre-law practicum i term: summer credits: 2 students will be introduced to elements of the law school experience. for example, students will review first-year courses taken by law students with a summary explanation of each course and a sample case from each course category, learn how to read and brief those cases like a law student, and develop an understanding of the diﬀerent types of legal writing (memos, briefs, motions, and opinions). this course is available for junior or senior students or by permission of the instructor. this course is available for one credit on a pass/fail basis. students may take this course by itself or in conjunction with intd 302: pre-law practicum ii. /uni00a0 intd 302 pre-law practicum ii term: summer credits: 1 students will be introduced to the elements of the law school application and law school admissions test. students enrolled in intd 302 must register an account with the law school admissions council and the law school admissions test hub. in this course, students will take practice tests and receive guidance on areas of improvement on test subjects. students will learn how to maximize their application through work on their personal statement essays and resumes and will meet with law school admissions counselors to gain additional application guidance. this course is available for one credit on a pass/fail basis. this course should be taken in the same year as the law school admissions test and is most appropriate for juniors or for seniors who plan to take a gap year. students may take this course by itself or in conjunction with intd 302: pre-law practicum i. /uni00a0 intd 322 geographic information systems research seminar term: spring, fall credits: 1-3 this course is designed for students who have already been introduced to the analytical tools of gis. students will undertake a research project under the supervision of one of the faculty teaching this course. the research project will culminate in a paper and presentation. the seminar will meet in an ongoing basis to exchange ideas, report on progress, and share potential sources of information. intd 331 theory and practice of scholarship grant writing term: spring credits: 1 this course is a workshop designed to assist students in the theoretical and practical aspects of writing successful grants for postgraduate scholarships and other competitive opportunities. students learn about the various options available, read scholarly literature on grant writing, develop strategies for writing proposals and give and receive criticism on proposals and projects. by the conclusion of the course, students are prepared to compete for national postgraduate scholarships. intd 460 interdisciplinary internship term: spring, fall, summer credits: 3-4 health profession section the health profession section internship oﬀering is designed to introduce students to practical applications of their academic work. students may work oﬀ campus under professional supervision in fields related to the health professions. students will be required to integrate academic and work experiences in a written report due at the end of the internship. no more than 4 credits per semester for no more than two semesters; at least three hours involvement per week per credit. pass/fail credit only. prerequisites: permission of the internship program director and instructor of the health profession section. interdisciplinary internship an interdisciplinary internship may be designed for students undertaking internships in areas of study in which there is no established department or program of study within the current curriculum./uni00a0 guidelines established for interdisciplinary internships align with college policies regarding internships, and require approval from appropriate academic departments or programs, as well as career services./uni00a0 grading policy for these internships is determined by academic faculty responsible for oversight of the project, and is most often based on the pass/fail grading option. /uni00a0 degree requirements f11 intd 461 interdisciplinary internship (health profession section) term: spring, fall credits: 1-2 similar to interdisciplinary internship (health profession section) 460, but does not require a written report and does not fulfill an f11 degree requirement. prerequisites: permission of the internship program director and instructor of the health profession section. intd 485 interdisciplinary senior seminar term: spring, fall credits: 4 this course is intended for the student who is pursuing an interdisciplinary, self-designed major. in the event that the student is unable to unify the senior seminar experiences of the departments involved in the major or to take each of the department’s senior seminars, the interdisciplinary senior seminar will be utilized to serve as the culminating experience for the major. it is intended to be an experience that will show both a breadth and a depth of knowledge in the integration of the departments, requiring both written and oral work. intd 486 interdisciplinary senior seminar term: spring, fall credits: 4 this course is intended for the student who is pursuing an interdisciplinary, self-designed major. in the event that the student is unable to unify the senior seminar experiences of the departments involved in the major or to take each of the department’s senior seminars, the interdisciplinary senior seminar will be utilized to serve as the culminating experience for the major. it is intended to be an experience that will show both a breadth and a depth of knowledge in the integration of the departments, requiring both written and oral work. ints 110 introduction to international relations term: spring, fall credits: 4 a survey of contemporary international politics. major topics covered in this course include international political geography, the evolution of the international system, the nation-state, modern diplomacy, international political economy, international law and organization, the east-west conflict, and north-south issues. degree requirements f3 f8 ints 120 introduction to comparative politics term: spring, fall credits: 4 an introduction to the principal theories, analytical approaches, and methods relating to the study of comparative politics. concrete country and case studies are used to highlight the relationship between the tools of comparative politics and real world political events and processes. degree requirements f8 ints 133 model united nations term: spring, fall credits: 1 simulation of united nations bodies (general assembly, security council, economic and social council, etc.) in a controlled class environment where debate and procedure are emphasized. students engage in topical research on political, economic, and social issues of assigned countries and formulate position papers and resolutions for debate in the simulation. the course meets one evening per week for eight weeks. it may be repeated for credit up to a maximum of four (4) credits. ints 190 international politics since 1945 term: spring, fall credits: 4 survey of significant events and trends in the international system since 1945. topics include the origins, evolution, and end of the cold war. the emergence of the post-cold war era, decolonization and east-west competition, the rise of nationalism, the role of nuclear weapons in world politics, changes in the global economy, and challenges facing the united states today are also examined. degree requirements f3 ints 220 global ecopolitics term: fall credits: 4 an introduction to the ecological politics paradigm, an alternative approach to the study of international relations. this course explores how environmental issues, population, disease, technology, and globalization create both problems and solutions to traditional questions of international relations (like war and peace, sovereignty, development, and power) and raise new areas of inquiry./uni00a0 degree requirements f8 ints 221 population and national security term: spring, fall credits: 4 an exploration of the shifting meanings and interpretation of “security,” particularly the securitization of population. the course covers a wide range of population topics, including aging, migration, the youth “bulge,” urbanization, health, and the demographic “bonus.” population trends, their security implications, and their connections to issues such as development and the environment are examined./uni00a0 degree requirements f2i ints 222 global health politics term: spring credits: 4 this course introduces students to issues of global health viewed through the lenses of international relations and comparative politics. it emphasizes connections between economic, social, political, and environmental factors and health outcomes. students will examine the roles of various actors in setting and addressing items on the global health agenda, including the nation state, inter-governmental organizations, corporations, and other non-governmental actors. the course is organized around 7 units that cover the history of global health, data and measurements in the study of global health, governance, and policy and practice around global health. three of the units look at various frameworks common to international studies: political economy & development, national and human security, and human rights. throughout the semester, we ask such questions as: why do some health issues become issues of global concern, while others are ignored? how have the epidemiological and demographic transitions shaped the health situations in various nation states? what transnational health challenges exist and how has the international community rallied together—or not—to address them? how have environmental and political changes shaped health outcomes? what are the greatest challenges to global health on the horizon and what are the best ways for actors to prepare for those challenges? this course is firmly grounded in the theoretical perspectives of international studies but is also suitable for those with broad interests in environmental studies, urban studies, biomathematics, political economy, and public health. /uni00a0 degree requirements f8 ints 235 great decisions in u.s. foreign policy term: spring credits: 1 a review of important contemporary global issues. the course meets in the evening for two hours, once a week for eight weeks. the teaching of this course is shared as each member of the departmental faculty will typically deliver one lecture./uni00a0 ints 243 government and politics of the middle east term: fall credits: 4 survey of historical and political trajectories of selected middle east states, including turkey, iran, israel-palestine, and the eastern (mashreq) arab world. the region’s history, influence of islam, and ideological trends are considered as are the roles of ethnic and religious minorities, state building, economic and political liberalization, authoritarian rule, conflict, and gender questions. degree requirements f8 f9 ints 244 issues in middle east politics term: spring credits: 4 survey of topical areas of significance to middle east politics. possible topics include the treatment of minority peoples, social movements, and political ideologies in the region as well as the arab-israeli conflict and the kurdish dispute. degree requirements f8 ints 245 us foreign policy in the middle east term: spring credits: 4 this course aims to understand the motivations behind and consequences of us foreign policy in the middle east both historically and today. it will cover issues, such as cold war policies, the war on terror, nuclear iran debates, and post-arab spring regional context and instability. degree requirements f8 ints 251 government and politics of africa term: fall credits: 4 an introduction to the complexity of the african political and socio-economic mosaic. the course examines the political, economic, and social transitions on the continent since the 1960s with particular focus on issues of governance and socio-economic development in selected countries. the role of both external and internal factors in shaping these political and social dynamics provides the theoretical focus for an investigation of present political economy and future possibilities. degree requirements f9 ints 252 the politics of pan-africanism term: spring credits: 4 this course examines the origins and development of pan-africanism and its impact as a political movement for the empowerment of africans in the diaspora and the decolonization of the african continent. the role of the oau/au as the basis of collective african security, diplomacy, regional economic integration, and development is evaluated with a view to determining its achievements, problems, and prospects. particular emphasis is placed on the role of agency in hatching, animating, and orchestrating social movements. degree requirements f9 ints 253 identity conflict in africa term: spring credits: 4 a theoretical delineation of how ethnic groups are socially constructed and maintained through a deliberate process of cultural objectification. the historical, political, religious and socio-economic roots of/uni00a0identity conflict in africa are examined. conflicts such as the sudanese civil war; the rwandan genocide; the biafran civil war; conflict in the great lakes region; post-election violence in kenya as well as ethnic strife in other areas are covered. degree requirements f8 ints 254 south africa through documentary film term: fall credits: 4 this course will use documentary film to help understand the remarkable political transformation of south africa in the 20th century. when the first europeans settled in south africa in 1652 they laid the basis for a racial oligarchy which only ended in 1994 with the election of nelson mandela as president of a "new" south africa. heretofore south africa had been ruled by whites for the benefit of whites with a system of racial domination called apartheid (from 1948) and which kept the white minority in power with a combination of economic dependency, political exploitation, psychological manipulation and violent repression. the inherent inhumanity of apartheid created an international outcry and spawned a global human rights movement which, along with internal political action by the black majority, helped move south africa toward a non-racial government. essential to that movement were images of life inside the apartheid system which were seen via a set of documentary films. the earlier documentary films we will see both not only showed the truth of what happened on the ground but also became artifacts of the struggle itself. it is for this reason that we will use documentaries to tell the story of south africa's transition from apartheid to freedom. the latter films show how much needs to be done before the promise of equality in south africa is realized. degree requirements f9 africana studies elective film studies elective ints 255 globalization and the challenges of development in ghana term: fall credits: 4 this course will include site visits to locations within accra that highlight fashion, food, and gender and entrepreneurship. we will begin with a brief history of markets in ghana as we begin to define "what is globalization?" from various interpretations and meanings of globalisation, we will investigate globalization’s influence on society including cultural implications. we will discuss topics such as transnationalism, agricultural developments, real estate, manufacturing, and even alternatives to globalization. how does globalization interface with social justice movements and women's rights? what part does ghana play in international relations for the local region and continent of africa? we will answer these and other questions as we explore our global ghana. ints 256 weapons of mass deception: political propaganda in film term: fall credits: 4 /uni00a0 critically analyze the ethics and rationale for using film as political propaganda to exert control,manipulate policy, and conduct war in totalitarian and democratic germany and the unitedstates during the 20th/uni00a0century. historical and contemporary films are drawn from several nations including the united states, germany, united kingdom, qatar, and russia./uni00a0 degree requirements f2i ints 260 summer study in china term: summer credits: 4 a six week study program in china. emphasis is placed on the language, culture, history, politics, and economy of china. students should contact the i.s. department and/or the international programs oﬃce for additional details. degree requirements f11 ints 261 government and politics of china term: spring, fall credits: 4 a study of the political system of the people’s republic of china, including an examination of the three centers of power (party, government, and military), ideology, leadership, political change, provincial and local governments. the chinese political system is assessed as a unique communist system and one that is changing due to rapid economic development. current political problems are also analyzed. degree requirements f9 ints 262 china's foreign policy term: spring, fall credits: 4 an analysis of china’s foreign policy from 1949 to the present. particular emphasis is placed on china’s relations with the united states, russia, japan and europe, its bid to lead the third world bloc, beijing’s eﬀorts to adjust to a new world order and its new role as an economic power. degree requirements f9 ints 263 comparative political economy of east asia term: spring, fall credits: 4 a comparative study of the interactions between politics and the economy in japan, south korea, and taiwan. major topics covered include developmental states, state-society interactions, state-business relations, labor politics, economic and political development, and welfare politics. degree requirements f8 ints 264 china-taiwan-u.s. relations term: spring, fall credits: 4 an exploration of the political and economic dimensions of china-taiwan relations as well as the role played by the u.s. in these relations. major topics covered include sino-u.s. relations, chinese nationalism, identity politics in taiwan, taiwan strait crises, the u.s. approach to china-taiwan relations, china’s taiwan policy, taiwan’s china policy, and economic ties between china and taiwan. degree requirements f8 ints 265 topics in international studies term: spring, fall credits: 4 concentrated study on issues of special importance in international aﬀairs. recently oﬀered topics include modern islamic fundamentalism, international development, ethnic conflict, terrorism, and international drug- traﬃcking. ints 266 topics in international studies term: spring, fall credits: 4 concentrated study on issues of special importance in international aﬀairs. recently oﬀered topics include modern islamic fundamentalism, international development, ethnic conflict, terrorism, and international drug- traﬃcking. ints 270 research methods in international studies term: spring, fall credits: 4 this course examines various methods used in the study of international relations and comparative politics. the formulation and design of research projects is emphasized. basic analytical concepts and techniques are introduced as students explore various approaches to the study of world politics. prerequisites introduction to international relations introduction to comparative politics ints 273 government and politics of latin america term: fall credits: 4 an introduction to latin american politics. military rule, human rights, democratization, populism, and the politics of gender, class, and ethnicity are examined in relation to specific countries in the region. the course then explores the political dimensions of development, poverty, and inequality. emphasis is placed on the most important conceptual and theoretical frameworks used to understand politics and governance in latin america. degree requirements f8 ints 274 contemporary us-latin american relations term: spring credits: 4 a survey of inter-american aﬀairs, with a focus on past and present relations between latin american countries and the united states. the course examines the consequences of u.s.-latin american relations for democracy, human rights, and economic prosperity in the western hemisphere. relevant themes include democracy promotion, immigration, and trade. the course combines case studies of specific countries, policy analysis, and historical/theoretical perspectives on inter-american relations. degree requirements f8 ints 280 summer study in europe term: maymester credits: 4 an examination of the reasons and consequences of the twin crises in europe: the economic and the refugee creses./uni00a0 particular attention will be given to the motives and impact of brexit and the greek economic and refugee crises. degree requirements f8 f11 ints 281 government and politics of western europe term: fall credits: 4 a comparative study of the government and politics of europe. emphasis is given to the evolution of parliamentary democracy, governmental, political, and social institutions, disparate decision-making patterns, and diﬀerent political cultures. a special segment is devoted to the evolution of the european union and the current level of european integration. degree requirements f8 ints 282 politics of european integration term: spring credits: 4 an examination of the evolving european integration process, institutions, and policymaking procedures, and the interaction between national and "european" interests and political outcomes. the development of europe as a "community of values" and the fostering of a "european" identity are examined in the context of the european union's growth as a political community and its relations with nonmember states. degree requirements f8 ints 283 introduction to international business cases term: summer credits: 4 this travel/study course is a combination of lectures, case discussions, and site visits in antwerp, belgium. students should contact the economics and business department and/or the international programs oﬃce for additional details. the course is the same as business 283. degree requirements f11 ints 284 russia and eurasia term: spring credits: 4 a study of countries comprising the former ussr. the course discusses the politics of reform, as well as the domestic, foreign, and security policies of the successor states, and the context of the changed global power equation after the cold war. degree requirements f8 f9 ints 285 putin's russia and the media term: spring credits: 4 this course examines mainstream and independent media sources, literary works, and films in order to find the authentic putin and dynamic contemporary russia. unraveling over a century of attempts by the west to penetrate and remake russia, we will apply theoretical frameworks appropriate to the specific forms of communication and expression (journalism, literature, and film) in order to better understand the real, instead of parodied or demonized, president and the country he has steered since the beginning of the millennium. the course is the same as russian 285. degree requirements f9 ints 294 encountering other cultures: pre departure term: spring, fall credits: 2 this course prepares students for their study abroad experiences and helps them derive maximum benefit from their time abroad. studying in a diﬀerent country and academic setting can be exciting and life-changing. it can also be confusing because learning the skills needed to transition to new cultural contexts and to develop intercultural competence simply takes time – and preparation. we will cover topics such as: establishing skills for abroad and linking them to your future, understanding your personal cultural identity and worldview in relation to your host culture, adapting in periods of acculturation, and engaging with your host culture/country. /uni00a0 ints 295 encountering other cultures: the return term: spring, fall credits: 2 this course welcomes students back from their semester/year abroad and facilitate re-entry to rhodes. students will identify their new intercultural competencies, explore the cultural learning they’ve gained through their study abroad experiences, and extend and apply that learning in new situations. focus will be placed on using new skills in old settings, reflecting on internal changes and the student’s cultural adaptation experiences, and folding the student’s new academic knowledge into the rhodes classrooms and conversations. by the end of this class, students should have a firm understanding on how to keep transforming their study abroad experiences into vibrant parts of their story for application in present and future life. /uni00a0 ints 300 international relations and comparative politics theories term: spring, fall credits: 4 an examination of the major theoretical paradigms and approaches in the study of international politics and/uni00a0comparative politics. prerequisites: ints 110 and ints 120, junior or senior standing. prerequisites introduction to international relations introduction to comparative politics ints 310 comparative political economy term: fall credits: 4 comparative political economy bridges the gap between comparative politics and political economy. this course examines the role of markets, states, power and institutions in varying domestic political contexts by comparing them on a cross-national basis. divergent institutional structures (e.g., social policy approaches, tax and regulatory policies, corporate governance arrangements) commonly seen in three archetypical country cases of germany, sweden and the united states are considered as is their impact national economic and political outcomes. the course examines multiple frameworks, tools and insights of comparative political economy to shed attention on the ideas, interests and institutions underpinning various national approaches. /uni00a0 prerequisites introduction to comparative politics ints 311 international political economy term: spring credits: 4 an overview of major issues and theoretical paradigms in international political economy, including interdependence, foreign economic policymaking, the evolution of the international financial system, the role of multinational corporations, and issues in the north-south dialogue. emphasis is on the variety of ways in which political and economic forces interact to aﬀect flows of goods, services, investments, money and technology. degree requirements f8 prerequisites introduction to international relations ints 330 women in world politics term: spring, fall credits: 4 this course examines contemporary political developments that have aﬀected women around the world, including the “war on terror,” armed conflicts, sex traﬃcking and tourism, migration, and democratization. in addition to investigating the gendered eﬀects of policies, we analyze women as political actors in their own right. their participation in both violent and non-violent struggles will be discussed. revolutionaries, protesters, environmentalists, motherist movements, presidents, and members of parliament: these are but a few examples of the diverse expressions of women’s politics./uni00a0 degree requirements f2i f8 ints 332 the politics of social movements and grassroots organizing term: spring, fall credits: 4 this community-integrative course introduces students to the politics of social movements and activism both within the united states and abroad. the main focus will be urban-based movements seeking to represent communities who have been politically marginalized on the basis of class, race, ethnicity, gender and/or sexuality. students will investigate the strategies participants in such movements use to identify pressing social problems, to mobilize support for their cause, and to influence policy making. comparative analysis of local/national forms of activism and movements that have emerged overseas is central to the course. all students will engage in community-based learning by working with local organizations involved in advocacy. degree requirements f8 f11 ints 334 religion and politics term: spring credits: 4 religious politics is on the rise: sectarian conflict is destabilizing the middle east, hindu and jewish ethno-religious parties are challenging liberal democracies through democratic systems, the christian right in the us has become a crucial player in local and national politics, christian democrats in europe are leading governments, the catholic church is reorienting itself with a new global mission, evangelical protestantism is spreading widely and quickly in latin america and africa, religious liberties are still a human rights issue in china, and radical transnational religious movements, such as al qaeda and isis, are challenging the international system based on nation-states. in this class, we will address this rise of religious politics through: (1) the lenses of comparative politics theories and discuss issues such as the role of religion in democratization, civil wars, national identity, and post-conflict reconciliation, and (2) the lenses of international relations theories and discuss issues such as the global rise of radical religious movements, the role of religion in foreign policy making and regional conflicts. degree requirements f8 f9 ints 336 international human rights term: spring credits: 4 this course will examine many of the complex and controversial issues regarding the emergence of the contemporary international human rights regime. among these issues are: what is the purpose of human rights? what should their content be? when do violations of human rights warrant intervention across national boundaries? is there a single moral foundation for human rights that spans many cultures or are there many culturally specific moral foundations, or none? in what sense, if any, are human rights universal? we begin with a brief look at the philosophy of rights, discussing how to define rights in general and human rights in particular. using mary ann glendon’s study of eleanor roosevelt and the drafting of the universal declaration of human rights as a point of departure, we also review existing international treaties on human rights. our class discussions will focus on rights about which there is a great deal of international consensus (such as the right not to be tortured) and rights over which there is much disagreement (such as the right to health care). we will also discuss whether rights are accorded to individuals or groups and how rights are guaranteed. we conclude with a consideration of what makes for a successful human rights campaign (e.g. south africa) and what challenges are faced by “new” campaigns such as women’s rights, lgbtq rights, and the rights of the child? ints 340 the politics of migration term: spring, fall credits: 4 this course explores how international migration challenges notions of identity, citizenship, and economic livelihood and how migrants engage in transnational social practices through travel, communication, and financial transfers. it examines whether the international regime to deal with migration is adequate to meet today’s challenges, including refugees and traﬃcked persons, and how the cultural challenges of integration diﬀer across countries, particularly in liberal states. this course may be sequenced with ints 221: population and national security for the purposes of the is minor. some sections may satisfy the f11./uni00a0/uni00a0 degree requirements f8 ints 341 comparative ecopolitics term: spring credits: 4 this course examines the question why diﬀerent countries and communities end up with diﬀerent approaches to the same environmental and population problems. using a comparative lens, we look for the answer in diﬀerent roles of social movements and advocacy; regime type; political culture and institutions; the policymaking process; and economic development. this course may be sequenced with ints 220: global ecopolitics for the purposes of the is minor. degree requirements f8 ints 371 american foreign policy term: spring credits: 4 this writing intensive course examines the basic elements of american foreign policy (afp) since world war ii. this course explores the tension between two basic questions. first, the united states is the preponderant power on the world stage since the end of the cold war. how can it use unipolarity to best serve its interests? second, american power is waning as it defuses to other states and other types of actors. how can the united states best prepare for multipolarity? to explore this tension, this course explores relevant international relations theory and its application to major concerns in afp – including war, international institutions and organizations, decision making, polarity and alliances, terrorism, and climate change. students are expected to apply these concepts to a topic of their choosing under the umbrella of afp and to write an intensively researched and thesis-driven term paper on the topic. /uni00a0 degree requirements f2i ints 372 u.s. national security policy term: spring credits: 4 this course examines the evolution of american military power and u.s. national security policy in the twentieth century. emphasis is placed on the dynamics of policy formation, the interaction of foreign and defense policy, and the impact of domestic politics and the changing international environment on the policy process. various strategic theories, assumptions about national security policy, and dilemmas regarding the use of force are also examined. degree requirements f8 ints 373 terrorism and u.s. national security term: fall credits: 4 an examination of the impact of terrorism on u.s. national security in the post-9/11 environment. the impact of 9/11 on u.s. security policy is considered, including the threats posed by terrorism to the homeland and to u.s. interests abroad, u.s. responses to terrorism, and long-term implication of the global war on terrorism strategy for u.s. global power position. ints 374 security studies term: fall credits: 4 an examination of how security studies have evolved over the years, covering both traditional and non-traditional areas of security. it examines a range of concepts from “hard security” to such ideas as energy security, economic security, cyber security and human security. the problem of preventive war, deterrence, mass suicide terrorism, nuclear proliferation unconventional war, and globalization are also considered. ints 420 revolution in world politics term: spring, fall credits: 4 this course examines the concept and theories of revolution; the development of processes involved in revolutionary political movements, and the consequences and ramifications of revolutionary political change. historical case studies are employed to analyze the specific revolutionary role of such contributive factors as human agency, mass mobilization, state breakdown, international dynamics, and the prevailing social and cultural environment. degree requirements f3 ints 421 democratization in world politics term: spring, fall credits: 4 an examination of the global expansion of democracy in recent decades. the course analyzes the processes of democratic transition, consolidation, and deepening. relevant themes include civil society, political institutions, culture, and economic development. a variety of countries in africa, asia, latin america, the middle east, and the former soviet bloc are explored. particular attention is given to theories of democratization within the field of comparative politics. ints 422 international conflict management term: spring, fall credits: 4 a survey of theoretical explanations of international and regional conflicts and an analysis of the practicalities of conflict management and resolution through negotiation, mediation, adjudication, and various other forms of third party intervention. emphasis is placed on historical origins of conflict; its ethnic, religious, geographic, and political dimensions; and the complexities of conflict management and resolution on the part of international actors. degree requirements f8 ints 423 the rise of authoritarianism term: spring credits: 4 a new authoritarian wave is sweeping world politics today: the mass uprisings of the arab spring have reproduced authoritarian regimes, consolidated democratic regimes are increasingly becoming illiberal, and new democracies are centralizing power through populist rhetoric. this course will address such rise in authoritarianism by asking how authoritarian regimes emerge, survive, co-opt, and mold their citizens. thus, the aim of this course will be to understand the multiplicity of authoritarian politics and its influence through theoretical discussions. these theoretical discussions will also be coupled with case studies from across the middle east, north africa, and southeast asia. within this framework, this course will be organized into three parts. part 1 will question what leads to the rise of authoritarian regimes and how democracies break down. part 2 will discuss how authoritarian regimes consolidate their power by using ideology, law, media, and violence. part 3 will examine how authoritarian regimes weaken, what leads to mass uprisings, and when they democratize. /uni00a0 degree requirements f8 f9 ints 451 the united nations term: fall credits: 4 an examination of the history, structure and evolution of the united nations and analysis of procedures of international cooperation in key issue areas, including the peaceful settlement of disputes and collective security, human rights, population, the environment, and economic well- being. prerequisites introduction to international relations ints 452 international law term: spring credits: 4 a study of the sources and development of international law with particular focus on examination of the core domains of the law including international human rights law; diplomatic law; the law of treaties; international criminal law; international environmental law; as well as the law of the sea, among others. the course seeks to address questions such as; what are the sources of international law? who makes international law and how is it legislated? what are the rights and duties of subjects of international law? who enforces international law and how? towards this end, specific legal cases are delineated and discussed with a view to demonstrating the practical application of international law and the diﬃculties associated with enforcing international law. degree requirements f8 ints 460 internship in international studies term: spring, fall credits: 3 or 4 on an individual basis and in conjunction with the career services oﬃce, students can receive internship credit for work in various professional settings. internships have been arranged in the past with a variety of local law firms, non-profit agencies, government agencies, and area corporations. the typical internship experience receives four academic credits. student interns are expected to keep a regular log of their activities and write a final paper reflecting on their experience. degree requirements f11 ints 461 internship in international studies term: spring, fall, summer credits: 1-2 on an individual basis and in conjunction with the career services oﬃce, students can receive internship credit for work in various professional settings. internships have been arranged in the past with a variety of local law firms, non-profit agencies, government agencies, and area corporations. students enrolled in ints 461 typically receive 1 or 2 academic credits and take the course on a pass/fail basis. student interns submit short assignments reflecting on their experiences and meet with the instructor of record. /uni00a0 ints 470 summer internship abroad term: summer credits: 1, 2 the mertie w. buckman international internship program provides an opportunity for outstanding international studies majors and international studies-related interdisciplinary majors to spend two months abroad while working on an internship project approved by the international studies faculty. the internships, which seek to give students a practical exposure to international politics and economics, are awarded on a competitive basis. degree requirements f11 ints 485 senior tutorial term: spring, fall credits: 4 conducted as a tutorial in seminar format, this course assists students in intensive research and the completion of the senior paper and an oral presentation of the senior paper based on topics chosen by students and approved by the faculty member in charge of the seminar. social science research methods and theories used in the study of international relations and comparative politics are also discussed. prerequisites: senior standing; and ints 270 or permission of the instructor ints 495 honors tutorial term: spring, fall credits: 4 an honors version of international studies 485, this tutorial will consist of individual research and writing of the honors project. students should consult with an international studies faculty or staﬀ member about their intentions to pursue an honors project at the beginning of the fall semester of the senior year (or earlier) and obtain a copy of the “honors in international studies guidelines.” ints 496 honors tutorial term: spring, fall credits: 4 an honors version of international studies 485, this tutorial will consist of individual research and writing of the honors project. students should consult with an international studies faculty or staﬀ member about their intentions to pursue an honors project at the beginning of the fall semester of the senior year (or earlier) and obtain a copy of the “honors in international studies guidelines.” latn 101 elementary latin term: spring, fall credits: 4 this series of courses introduces students to the fundamentals of the latin language. although the primary goal of the elementary sequence of courses through latin 201 is to prepare students to use latin documents in a wide variety of academic contexts, students will develop all four language skills: reading, writing, listening, and speaking. latn 102 elementary latin term: spring, fall credits: 4 this series of courses introduces students to the fundamentals of the latin language. although the primary goal of the elementary sequence of courses through latin 201 is to prepare students to use latin documents in a wide variety of academic contexts, students will develop all four language skills: reading, writing, listening, and speaking. latn 201 intermediate latin term: spring, fall credits: 4 this course concludes the elementary language sequence and prepares students for more advanced work in the language. during this course students will begin making the transition from graded selections in the elementary texts to authentic ancient texts from a variety of latin authors and genres from antiquity to the modern period. in addition to developing their ability to comprehend and interpret ancient texts, students will continue to work on their aural-oral proficiency. degree requirements f10 prerequisites elementary latin latn 202 latin rhetoric term: spring credits: 4 in keeping with the pedagogy of the ancient schools of rhetoric, this course will provide an analytic and comprehensive review of the structures of the language. students will work toward fluency in reading, composition, and conversation. degree requirements f2i f10 latn 232 latin in rome term: summer credits: 4 an intensive reading course examining works of latin literature pertinent to the study of the topography of rome. selections will come from roman historians, poets, orators, and inscriptions. class meetings will take place in the city of rome. students will visit and analyze sites described in the primary literature; inscriptions review in situ where possible, and study the textual tradition through available manuscripts. latn 265 topics in latin literature term: spring, fall credits: 1-4 in this course advanced students of latin will read and analyze texts from major works of literature. it will feature materials organized thematically, generically, by period, or by author. texts in this course will generally represent significant documents for the study of the cultural and literary history of roman society and may also be the subjects of study in other courses oﬀered at rhodes both by grs and other disciplines. the course will help students develop greater reading fluency and expand their understanding of interpretative approaches. the course will generally be taught as a four-credit course. students in special circumstances may take the course for one, two, or three credits with the permission of the instructor. the course may be repeated for credit if the topic diﬀers. degree requirements f4 f10 prerequisites intermediate latin latn 291 latin literature from the early republic term: fall credits: 4 this course, making extensive use of resources available via the internet, focuses on the earliest literary documents in the latin language. readings will come primarily from the comedies of plautus and terence, but students should expect to study other examples of archaic latin such as the fragments of ennius’ annales. students will participate in a weekly webcast lecture, an on-line discussion moderated by faculty members from institutions that participate in sunoikisis (www.sunoikisis.org), and weekly tutorials with faculty members at rhodes. this course is specifically designed for advanced students and will include a rigorous study of the cultural and historical context during the early republic. students will also become familiar with current interpretative approaches to the material. prerequisites topics in latin literature latn 292 latin literature from the late republic term: fall credits: 4 this course, making extensive use of resources available via the internet, focuses on the literature of rome during the late republic. readings will come primarily from the work of cicero, catullus, caesar, and sallust. students will participate in a weekly webcast lecture, an on-line discussion moderated by faculty members from institutions that participate in sunoikisis (www.sunoikisis.org), and weekly tutorials with faculty members rhodes. this course is specifically designed for advanced students and will include a rigorous study of the cultural and historical context during the late republic. students will also become familiar with the current interpretative approaches to the material. prerequisites topics in latin literature latn 293 literature of the neronian period term: fall credits: 4 this inter-institutional collaborative course, making extensive use of resources available via the internet, explores the literature of the early roman empire, with a particular emphasis on the works of authors who were active during the period of nero’s reign. these authors include seneca, lucan, and petronius. students will participate in a weekly webcast lecture, an on-line discussion moderated by faculty members from institutions that participate in sunoikisis (www.sunoikisis.org), and weekly tutorials with faculty members at rhodes. this course is specifically designed for advanced students and will include a rigorous study of the cultural and historical context during the early principate. prerequisites topics in latin literature latn 294 roman literature, 70-180 ce term: fall credits: 4 this course, making extensive use of resources available via the internet, explores the society of the roman empire through the works of authors who were active during the period beginning with the reign of vespasian and extending to the death of m. aurelius. these authors include martial, statius, tacitus, pliny the younger, juvenal, and apuleius. students will participate in a weekly webcast lecture, an on-line discussion moderated by faculty members from institutions that participate in sunoikisis (www.sunoikisis.org), and weekly tutorials with faculty members at rhodes. this course is specifically designed for advanced students and will require extensive reading in more than one genre of latin literature and a rigorous study of the cultural and historical context of rome in the late first and second centuries ce. prerequisites topics in latin literature latn 295 latin literature from late antiquity and the middle ages term: fall credits: 4 this course examines the literature produced during and after the dissolution of the roman empire, beginning approximately with the reforms of diocletian and constantine and concluding with the renaissance of secular education in the twelfth century. texts will include selections from the work of jerome, augustine, prudentius, alcuin of york, einhard, hrotsvitha of gandersheim, abelard, heloise, hildegard of bingen, and walter of chatillon. students will participate in a weekly webcast lecture, an on-line discussion moderated by faculty members from institutions that participate in sunoikisis (www.sunoikisis.org), and weekly tutorials with faculty members at rhodes. this course is specifically designed for advanced students and will require extensive reading in more than one genre of latin literature and a rigorous study of the cultural and historical context of rome and the latin-speaking world after 180 ce. prerequisites topics in latin literature latn 391 latin literature from the early republic term: fall credits: 4 this course, making extensive use of resources available via the internet, focuses on the earliest literary documents in the latin language. readings will come primarily from the comedies of plautus and terence, but students should expect to study other examples of archaic latin such as the fragments of ennius’ annales. students will participate in a weekly webcast lecture, an on-line discussion moderated by faculty members from institutions that participate in sunoikisis (www.sunoikisis.org), and weekly tutorials with faculty members at rhodes. this course is specifically designed for advanced students and will include a rigorous study of the cultural and historical context during the early republic. students will also become familiar with current interpretative approaches to the material. prerequisites topics in latin literature latn 392 latin literature from the late republic term: fall credits: 4 this course, making extensive use of resources available via the internet, focuses on the literature of rome during the late republic. readings will come primarily from the work of cicero, catullus, caesar, and sallust. students will participate in a weekly webcast lecture, an on-line discussion moderated by faculty members from institutions that participate in sunoikisis (www.sunoikisis.org), and weekly tutorials with faculty members rhodes. this course is specifically designed for advanced students and will include a rigorous study of the cultural and historical context during the late republic. students will also become familiar with the current interpretative approaches to the material. prerequisites topics in latin literature latn 393 literature of the neronian period term: fall credits: 4 this inter-institutional collaborative course, making extensive use of resources available via the internet, explores the literature of the early roman empire, with a particular emphasis on the works of authors who were active during the period of nero’s reign. these authors include seneca, lucan, and petronius. students will participate in a weekly webcast lecture, an on-line discussion moderated by faculty members from institutions that participate in sunoikisis (www.sunoikisis.org), and weekly tutorials with faculty members at rhodes. this course is specifically designed for advanced students and will include a rigorous study of the cultural and historical context during the early principate. prerequisites topics in latin literature latn 394 roman literature, 70-180 ce term: fall credits: 4 this course, making extensive use of resources available via the internet, explores the society of the roman empire through the works of authors who were active during the period beginning with the reign of vespasian and extending to the death of m. aurelius. these authors include martial, statius, tacitus, pliny the younger, juvenal, and apuleius. students will participate in a weekly webcast lecture, an on-line discussion moderated by faculty members from institutions that participate in sunoikisis (www.sunoikisis.org), and weekly tutorials with faculty members at rhodes. this course is specifically designed for advanced students and will require extensive reading in more than one genre of latin literature and a rigorous study of the cultural and historical context of rome in the late first and second centuries ce. prerequisites topics in latin literature latn 395 latin literature from late antiquity and the middle ages term: fall credits: 4 this course examines the literature produced during and after the dissolution of the roman empire, beginning approximately with the reforms of diocletian and constantine and concluding with the renaissance of secular education in the twelfth century. texts will include selections from the work of jerome, augustine, prudentius, alcuin of york, einhard, hrotsvitha of gandersheim, abelard, heloise, hildegard of bingen, and walter of chatillon. students will participate in a weekly webcast lecture, an on-line discussion moderated by faculty members from institutions that participate in sunoikisis (www.sunoikisis.org), and weekly tutorials with faculty members at rhodes. this course is specifically designed for advanced students and will require extensive reading in more than one genre of latin literature and a rigorous study of the cultural and historical context of rome and the latin-speaking world after 180 ce. prerequisites topics in latin literature latn 415 tutorial assistantship term: spring, fall credits: 2 under the direction of the instructor, the tutorial assistant will be responsible for helping plan and conduct the tutorial sessions for elementary students. assistants will also develop a familiarity with issues concerning second language acquisition and assist in the evaluation of language courses. this course is open only to advanced students and by permission of the instructor. lals 105 special topics in latin american studies credits: 4 focus on topics in latin american studies lals 200 introduction to latin american studies term: fall credits: 4 an introduction to the diverse cultural, social, and political realities of latin america and the caribbean. the region is examined from an interdisciplinary perspective that draws on the fields of literature, anthropology, sociology, history, and international studies. major topics covered in the course include gender, ethnicity, religion, magical realism, immigration, revolution, dictatorship, and human rights. the course is intended as a broad overview of latin american studies. degree requirements f9 lals 205 introduction to latinx studies term: spring credits: 2 this course is an introduction to the interdisciplinary field of latinx studies, and how it reconfigures the study of the united states and the americas. we will explore the presence of latinx, latinas/os and hispanics as an integral part of us culture, intellectual life, and history. latinx, latinas/os and hispanics have been a critical component of our expanding and growing nation, from the early nineteenth century to the present. in the contemporary period, latinx, latinas/os and hispanics represent significant social, economic, and political groups that contribute to the nation and concepts of the national. we will examine notions such as: decolonization, liberation theology, mujerista feminisms, xicanism, global south, transnationalism, globalization, and others through interdisciplinary perspectives coming from the fields of performance studies, music, literature, history, psychology, politics, business, and culture and language among others. this course seeks to understand the latinx, latinas/os intellectual and cultural production, and to reflect about how they represent a central pillar for intellectual reflection and cultural production in our own nation. lals 210 introduction to latinx studies and praxis term: spring credits: 4 this course is an introduction to the interdisciplinary field of latinx studies, and how it reconfigures the study of the united states and the americas. we will explore the presence of latinx, latinas/os and hispanics as an integral part of us culture, intellectual life, and history. latinx, latinas/os and hispanics have been a critical component of our expanding and growing nation, from the early nineteenth century to the present. in the contemporary period, latinx, latinas/os and hispanics represent significant social, economic, and political groups that contribute to the nation and concepts of the national. we will examine notions such as: decolonization, liberation theology, mujerista feminisms, xicanism, global south, transnationalism, globalization, and others through interdisciplinary perspectives coming from the fields of performance studies, music, literature, history, psychology, politics, business, and culture and language among others. this course seeks to understand the latinx, latinas/os intellectual and cultural production, and to reflect about how they represent a central pillar for intellectual reflection and cultural production in our own nation. there will be an engaged-learning component in this course in which students will work in and with the latinx community in memphis. lals 265 special topics in latin american studies credits: 4 focus on special topics in latin american studies lals 306 latin american and latinx studies practicum credits: 1-4 practicum on latin american/latinx studies topics. lals 306 latin american/latinx practicum credits: 1-4 practicum on latin american/latinx topics lals 365 advanced special topics in latin american studies credits: 4 focus on advanced topics in latin american studies lals 460 latin american studies internship term: spring, fall credits: 1-4 a work experience at one of several local non-profit organizations and other entities whose missions intersect with the latin american studies curriculum. prior to enrolling in the course, students should research placement options with career services and latin american studies faculty. the course is conducted under the joint supervision of a latin american studies faculty member and a representative of the partner organization. students who enroll in the course for less than four credits may repeat the course for up to four total credits. degree requirements f11 lals 485 senior seminar term: spring, fall credits: 4 senior seminar is an interdisciplinary research project from the following departments: anthropology/sociology,/uni00a0educational studies, history, international studies, modern languages and literatures (spanish), and biology. students must combine two disciplines in their research and work under the supervision of faculty members of the latin american studies committee. lals 495 honors tutorial term: spring, fall credits: 4-8 /uni00a0 /uni00a0 lals 496 honors tutorial term: spring, fall credits: 4-8 /uni00a0 /uni00a0 math 107 linear methods term: spring, fall credits: 4 topics include systems of linear equations, matrices, matrix inversion and applications (including leontief input-output analysis), mathematical programming, linear programming and the simplex method, finite markov chains, and game theory. degree requirements f6 math 108 cryptology term: spring credits: 4 this course is an examination of conventional cryptographic methods (such as substitution and transposition ciphers), public key methods (such as rsa, a standard method for secure web transactions), and computer-based conventional cryptographic techniques (block ciphers and hash functions). we will develop and use mathematical tools such as modular arithmetic, probability, matrix algebra, and number theory both to implement and cryptanalyze these methods. in addition, we will deal with a few of the technical and public policy issues surrounding uses of encryption. degree requirements f6 math 109 excursions in mathematics term: spring credits: 4 at its heart, mathematics is a process of discovery. in this course, you will be introduced to the joys and challenges of mathematical discovery in a setting of accessible and engaging topics. students will learn how to approach mathematical questions in a logical and precise way, and how to formulate and explore questions of their own. the choice of topics varies, but includes elementary material from such areas as graph theory, euclidean and non-euclidean geometry, number theory, combinatorial games, knot theory, infinite sets, probability, and the theory of fair division. /uni00a0 degree requirements f6 math 111 applied statistics for liberal arts term: spring, fall credits: 4 this course is an introduction to statistical inference and its applications. topics relate to the inferential techniques for one and two samples and simple linear regression. both classical and resampling methods will be used. students may not earn credit for both math 111 and math 211. /uni00a0 degree requirements f6 math 112 diﬀerential calculus term: spring, fall credits: 4 this course is an introduction to the concepts, formalism, and applications of functions, limits, and the derivative. elementary transcendental functions are introduced and used throughout. specific topics include functions, limits, the derivative, and applications of diﬀerentiation. there are no prerequisites for this class. students are expected to have a background in high school algebra and geometry. students should not take this course if they plan to take only one semester of calculus or if they have already seen derivatives in a previous class. students who/uni00a0earned rhodes credit for ap calculus ab or ib mathematics scores may not enroll in this class./uni00a0 students who have taken calculus in high school may not earn credit for math 112 without permission from the instructor. math 115 applied calculus term: spring, fall credits: 4 this one-semester course presents an introduction to applied mathematics and an overview of calculus: applications of the derivative, the definite integral, the fundamental theorem of calculus, partial derivatives and double integrals. applications will involve the use of a variety of functions, including exponential, logarithmic and trigonometric functions. each topic is introduced through the modeling process; computer-based applications and group work are major components of this course. (note: students who have already had math 112, math 116 or math 122/uni00a0may not earn credit for math 115.) degree requirements f6 math 116 calculus with business applications credits: 4 this course provides a one-semester introduction to the fundamentals of calculus, with applications and examples selected specifically to be of use and interest to students with a major in commerce and business, or a career interest in business. topics include functions and change, the derivative, diﬀerentiation techniques, the definite integral, and applications. (note: students who have already had math 112, math 115, or math 122 may not earn credit for math 116.) degree requirements f6 math 122 integral calculus term: spring, fall credits: 4 this course is a continuation of math 112 appropriate for any student who has taken a course covering diﬀerential calculus and using trigonometric functions./uni00a0 topics include the definite and indefinite integral, the fundamental theorem of calculus, techniques of integration, and applications of integration. prerequisite: math 112 or equivalent diﬀerential calculus course (may be satisfied with a high school calculus course.) degree requirements f6 math 201 transition to advanced mathematics term: fall credits: 4 a thorough introduction to the reading, writing, presenting and creating of mathematical proofs. students will learn and practice in a careful and deliberate way the techniques used to prove mathematical theorems. proofs studied will be chosen from a variety of fields such as set theory, number theory, analysis, algebra, and graph theory. topics also include elements of the history and philosophy of mathematics and an introduction to the mathematical community. degree requirements f6 prerequisites integral calculus math 211 applied statistics for the formal & natural sciences credits: 4 this course is modern introduction to statistical inference. topics of the course relate to inferential techniques for one, two, and multiple samples. both classical and resampling methods will be used. the course will also include the basic concepts of experimental design. a professional statistical software package will be used. students may not earn credit for both math 111 and math 211. /uni00a0 degree requirements f6 math 212 applied regression term: spring credits: 4 in this course the theory and applications of regression analysis will be studied and used to model real-life data. topics of this course will concern the selection, building, analysis, and validation of simple and multiple regression models. the diagnostics of these models will also be studied. classical and resampling methods will be used with a professional software package. prerequisite: math 111 or math 211 or econ 290 or pysc 211 math 214 discrete mathematical modeling with biological applications term: spring credits: 4 this course provides an introduction to a variety of mathematical topics used in analyzing problems arising in the biological sciences, without using calculus. /uni00a0the mathematics covered in this course all revolve around modeling dynamic biological phenomenon using discrete time steps. specifically, we will construct and analyze discrete diﬀerence equation models, matrix models, and boolean models. /uni00a0some of the biological applications we will explore include modeling the population sizes of various species over time, describing how the concentration of a drug in the body changes over time, modeling the process of ecological succession, modeling the frequency of an allele in a population over generations, and modeling metabolic pathways. in the lab assignments for this course students will learn the fundamentals of programming using the software package matlab as a means of implementing and analyzing the mathematical models constructed throughout the course./uni00a0students are not expected to have prior exposure to computer programming before taking this course. degree requirements f6 math 216 mathematical modeling in ecosystems credits: 4 this course is only available through the semester in environmental science program at the marine biological lab in woods hole, massachusetts. this course is an introduction to dynamic simulation modeling of ecological systems. we examine the role of models in science, the relationship of models to scientific theories, and methods for their application, for example to predict long-term ecosystem responses to global change and eutrophication. in a series of class exercises, the students will apply the concept of mass balance to simulate population and community dynamics and the biogeochemistry of ecosystems. each student will develop their own computer model of an ecological system of interest to them and write a term paper based on an analysis with their model. /uni00a0 math 223 multivariable calculus term: spring, fall credits: 4 a continuation of math 122 covering sequences, series, and the calculus of multivariable functions./uni00a0 topics include power series, taylor series, functions of several variables, partial derivatives, and multivariable integration. degree requirements f6 prerequisites integral calculus math 235 data visualization term: fall credits: 4 this course will show how to eﬀectively present a set of data in ways that reveal the story within it to diﬀerent audiences. this will include how to reformat data to enable it to be presented in diﬀerent ways. a professional software package will be used throughout the course. /uni00a0 math 251 diﬀerential equations term: spring, fall credits: 4 the theory, methods, and applications of ordinary diﬀerential equations. topics include existence, uniqueness and other properties of solutions, linear equations, power series and laplace transform methods, systems of linear equations, and qualitative analysis. degree requirements f6 prerequisites integral calculus math 261 linear algebra term: spring credits: 4 topics include systems of linear equations, matrix algebra, determinants, real and complex vector spaces, linear transformations, eigenvalues and eigenvectors, and diagonalization. attention is given to proofs. prerequisites: math 122 and either any 200-level math course or comp 172 degree requirements f6 math 305 probability & simulation term: spring credits: 4 this is a first course in probability and simulation. the topics include basic probability rules, counting methods, conditional probability, various discrete and continuous probability distributions, functions of random variables with applications to statistical estimators, and simulation analysis of the central limit theorem. a professional statistical software package will be used throughout the course. this is the foundational material for the soa/cas actuarial exam p/1. prerequisites integral calculus math 307 bayesian statistical analysis term: spring credits: 4 bayes' theorem, prior and posterior distributions, likelihood functions, bayesian data analysis, comparison of bayesian and classical (frequentist) approaches, introduction to markov chain monte carlo methods (mcmc), hierarchical modeling and regression bayesian analysis. a professional statistical software package will be used throughout the course. prerequisites: math 211 or math 212 or math 305 or econ 290. math 311 probability theory term: fall credits: 4 this is a first course in probability theory. the topics include fundamental concepts of probability theory, various discrete and continuous probability distributions, functions of random variables, and the central limit theorem. this is the foundational material for the soa/cas actuarial exam p/1. /uni00a0 prerequisites multivariable calculus math 311 probability theory credits: 4 this is a first course in probability theory. the topics include fundamental concepts of probability theory, various discrete and continuous probability distributions, functions of random variables, and the central limit theorem. this is the foundational material for the soa/cas actuarial exam p/1. prerequisites multivariable calculus math 312 mathematical statistics term: spring credits: 4 this course is a modern introduction to the mathematical statistics using both classical and resampling methods. topics include sampling distributions, statistical inference, estimation theory, and other advanced mathematical statistical techniques. a professional software package will be used throughout the course. /uni00a0 prerequisites probability theory probability & simulation math 312 mathematical statistics credits: 4 this course is a modern introduction to the mathematical statistics using both classical and resampling methods. topics include sampling distributions, statistical inference, estimation theory, and other advanced mathematical statistical techniques. a professional software package will be used throughout the course. math 314 agent-based modeling credits: 4 agent-based models (abms) are algorithms which model the behavior and interaction of individuals (referred to as agents) with each other and their local environment. abms have been used to model a diverse array of complex dynamical systems including flocking/swarming/schooling, financial transactions, the growth of a slime mold, and the spread of infectious diseases within a population or network. this class will introduce agent-based modeling and a programming language & environment designed for the implementation of abms called netlogo. after the foundational principles of agent-based modeling are covered, teams of students will identify a system to model, and work to create and implement an abm to address relevant questions about the behavior of the system being modeled. oﬀered spring in alternate years. pre-requisites: math 214 or math 315 math 315 continuous mathematical modeling & scientific writing term: fall credits: 4 mathematical modeling is central to harnessing the power of mathematics in the generation of new scientific knowledge. students will/uni00a0work in teams to model biological or physical scenarios using systems of diﬀerential equations. students will learn to conduct literature searches, pose and refine research questions,/uni00a0use standard mathematical models, identify which models are applicable to a given research question, modify standard models to novel/uni00a0situations, communicate each of these eﬀectively in writing, and work eﬀectively in a team. a final project will require students to create/uni00a0a polished research article presenting their models. a significant portion of this course will focus on developing fluency in scientific/uni00a0writing./uni00a0 oﬀered spring term in alternate years./uni00a0 prerequisites: math 251, or math 122 and math 214 degree requirements f2i math 321 real analysis i term: spring, fall credits: 4 topics include the real and complex number systems, metric spaces, sequences and series, continuity, and diﬀerentiation, as well as topics selected from the riemann and the riemann- stieltjes integrals, sequences and series of functions, functions of several real variables, and lebesgue theory. emphasis is on careful proof. prerequisites transition to advanced mathematics multivariable calculus math 322 real analysis ii term: spring, fall credits: 4 topics include the real and complex number systems, metric spaces, sequences and series, continuity, and diﬀerentiation, as well as topics selected from the riemann and the riemann- stieltjes integrals, sequences and series of functions, functions of several real variables, and lebesgue theory. emphasis is on careful proof. prerequisites real analysis i math 324 vector and advanced calculus term: spring credits: 4 a continuation of math 223 covering vector calculus and generalizations of the fundamental theorem of calculus. topics include vector-valued functions, advanced multivariable integration, the geometry of curves and surfaces, green's theorem, the divergence theorem, and stokes' theorem. /uni00a0 prerequisites multivariable calculus math 330 biostatistics term: fall credits: 4 this course applies statistical methods to medical and biological data. topics include basics of experimental design, basic inference techniques, one and two way anova, categorical data analysis and other biostatistics methods. a professional software package will be used throughout the course. math 330 biostatistics term: fall credits: 4 this course applies statistical methods to medical and biological data. topics include basics of experimental design, basic inference techniques, one and two way anova, categorical data analysis and other biostatistics methods. a professional software package will be used throughout the course. prerequisites applied statistics for the formal & natural sciences statistical methods statistical analysis for economics and business math 331 computational topology term: spring credits: 4 this course is an introduction to topology and topological data analysis with an emphasis on computation. topics will include topology of graphs, alpha-complexes and triangulations, homology, and persistence. prerequisites integral calculus math 333 time series and forecasting term: spring credits: 4 the course emphasis is on methods and the analysis of data sets. the course will teach students the logic and tools for building and forecasting time series models as applied in economics, engineering and the natural and social sciences. professional software packages will be used throughout the course. prerequisites probability & simulation math 352 partial diﬀerential equations term: fall credits: 4 an introduction to the concepts, theory, and basic solution techniques of partial diﬀerential equations. examples studied in detail include the heat equation, wave equation, and laplace equation. the theory and applications of fourier series are introduced. other topics that may be covered include numerical methods, modeling, and nonlinear waves. (course oﬀered in alternate years; scheduled for 2018-2019.) prerequisites diﬀerential equations multivariable calculus math 362 abstract algebra i term: spring, fall credits: 4 an introduction to axiomatic algebraic structures. topics include groups, subgroups, permutation groups, cyclic groups, normal subgroups, quotient groups, homomorphisms, isomorphisms, rings, integral domains, polynomial rings, ideals, quotient rings, fields, and extension fields. additional topics may include finite fields, galois theory, and advanced topics from linear algebra./uni00a0 prerequisites transition to advanced mathematics linear algebra math 363 abstract algebra ii term: spring, fall credits: 4 an introduction to axiomatic algebraic structures. topics include groups, subgroups, permutation groups, cyclic groups, normal subgroups, quotient groups, homomorphisms, isomorphisms, rings, integral domains, polynomial rings, ideals, quotient rings, fields, and extension fields. additional topics may include finite fields, galois theory, and advanced topics from linear algebra./uni00a0 prerequisites abstract algebra i math 370 complex variables term: spring credits: 4 this course is an introduction to the theory of functions of a complex variable. topics include complex numbers and their properties, analytic functions and the cauchy-riemann equations, complex logarithms, exponential and trigonometric functions, complex integration and the cauchy integral formula, complex power series, the residue theorem, and applications to calculations of definite integrals. prerequisites multivariable calculus math 371 complex variables with proofs term: fall credits: 4 this course is an introduction to the theory of functions of a complex variable. topics include complex numbers and their properties, analytic functions and the cauchy-riemann equations, complex logarithms, exponential and trigonometric functions, complex integration and the cauchy integral formula, complex power series, the residue theorem, applications to calculations of definite integrals, and methods of proof involving these concepts. this course runs concurrent with math 370; students in math 371 will be held to a higher standard of mathematical rigor and be asked to complete additional problems. /uni00a0 prerequisites transition to advanced mathematics multivariable calculus math 386 junior seminar term: spring credits: 1 this course will prepare students for the senior seminar experience. students will attend the senior seminar presentations, pursue independent readings, and prepare a senior seminar prospectus for approval by the faculty of the department. math 431 topology term: spring credits: 4 topics selected from sets, functions, metric spaces, topological spaces, separation properties, compactness, connectedness, the stone- weierstrass theorem, mapping theorems, plane topology. prerequisites transition to advanced mathematics multivariable calculus math 451 research in mathematics term: spring, fall credits: 1-4 qualified students may conduct original research in pure mathematics, applied mathematics, or statistics under the supervision of a faculty mentor. a student may use four combined credits from 451 and 452 towards one upper- level major elective. students should expect to commit at least three hours per week per credit. math 452 research in mathematics term: spring, fall credits: 1-4 qualified students may conduct original research in pure mathematics, applied mathematics, or statistics under the supervision of a faculty mentor. a student may use four combined credits from 451 and 452 towards one upper- level major elective. students should expect to commit at least three hours per week per credit. math 455 readings in mathematics term: spring, fall credits: 1-4 this course allows students to do advanced work not provided for in the regular courses. its content will be fixed after consultation with the student and in accord with his or her particular interests. math 456 readings in mathematics term: spring, fall credits: 1-4 this course allows students to do advanced work not provided for in the regular courses. its content will be fixed after consultation with the student and in accord with his or her particular interests. math 460 internship term: spring, fall credits: 1-4 internships in mathematics, which are normally arranged by the director of career services, permit a qualified student to receive academic credit for oﬀ-campus work experience. upon completion of the internship, the student makes written and oral reports focusing on an integration of the student’s academic work and the internship project. normally the course will be taken on a pass/fail basis; it does not count toward the requirements for the major or minor except with special approval of the department. interested students should contact the chair of the department and the director of career services. math 465 special topics in mathematics term: spring, fall credits: 4 an occasional oﬀering of topics not covered in the existing mathematics courses. examples of topics include: graph theory, fourier analysis, measure theory, dynamical systems, matrix groups, foundations of mathematics, game theory, set theory, logic, non-euclidean geometry, orbifold euler characteristics, and operations research. math 482 combinatorics term: fall credits: 4 topics selected from basic counting principles, ramsey theory, the inclusion/exclusion principle, recurrence relations, generating functions, partially ordered sets, systems of distinct representatives, combinatorial designs, graphs, directed graphs, partitions, combinatorial optimization, enumeration under group action, and an introduction to coding theory. (course oﬀered every third year.) prerequisites transition to advanced mathematics math 485 senior seminar term: fall credits: 1-4 students pursue individual projects supervised by members of the faculty. seminar sessions focus on issues of eﬀective written and oral presentation of mathematics. a student may pursue either a research project, in which the student carries out original research on a suitable topic of interest, or an expository project, demonstrating understanding of mathematics by exploring some topic of established mathematics which is not covered in a regular course./uni00a0 math 486 senior seminar term: spring credits: 1-4 students pursue individual projects supervised by members of the faculty. seminar sessions focus on issues of eﬀective written and oral presentation of mathematics. a student may pursue either a research project, in which the student carries out original research on a suitable topic of interest, or an expository project, demonstrating understanding of mathematics by exploring some topic of established mathematics which is not covered in a regular course./uni00a0 math 495 honors tutorial in mathematics term: spring, fall credits: 4 the honors tutorial provides an alternative to the senior seminar for qualified students who wish to pursue an original research project in greater depth than would be possible otherwise. criteria for successful completion of an honors project include originality, mathematical maturity, progress, and independence. math 496 honors tutorial in mathematics term: spring, fall credits: 4 the honors tutorial provides an alternative to the senior seminar for qualified students who wish to pursue an original research project in greater depth than would be possible otherwise. criteria for successful completion of an honors project include originality, mathematical maturity, progress, and independence. musc 101 music: a sound experience term: spring, fall credits: 4 this course is designed to increase knowledge of the history and traditions of western art music. a primary goal of the course is to develop greater skill in active listening. while the focus of the course is the european classical tradition from 1600 to the present, discussions will also include excursions into world music, film music, folk music of various cultures, and american traditions, to provide a greater appreciation of the larger musical world. this course is for students who are not music majors. note: this course does not fulfill any requirements in the music major. degree requirements f5 musc 103 elements of music term: spring, fall credits: 4 this course is designed for the student who is curious about how music is organized, as well as for the beginner who needs some extra work in fundamental topics. through written, aural, and keyboard skills, students gain knowledge of pitch notation, rhythm and meter, scales, intervals, chords, simple harmonic progressions, and cadences. degree requirements f5 musc 105 topics in music term: spring, fall credits: 4 topics courses are designed to focus on special interest topics such as women in music, music of africa, memphis music, sacred music traditions, and understanding jazz language. degree requirements f5 musc 116 ghanaian popular music term: fall credits: 4 highlife music has emerged as one of the most popular world music genres from west africa in the last century. the music tradition's success on the world stage is closely associated with its trans- atlantic influences and the impact of african traditional and imported western and black diasporic performance norms. the present proliferation and popularization of various musical styles marketed as 'highlife' or ghanaian popular music point to the fact that ghanaian musical expressions draw their musical characteristics from indigenous ghanaian music heritage juxtaposed with ideas borrowed from the west. styles are diﬀerentiated according to time, place, and cultural influences concerning embellishment, language choice, vocal timbres, and instrumental resources. this course analyses the musical varieties within genres marketed as ghanaian 'popular' or "highlife" music. it oﬀers broader political, economic, and socio-historical perspectives on various factors rooted in ethnicity, gender, identity, pan-africanism, and generational class relations that have contributed to contemporary understandings of ghanaian ‘popular’ and highlife music. our exploration of highlife will range from the relationships between ghanaian and west african music research to the marketing of highlife music today, from ethnographic approaches to ghanaian performance to the philosophical and ethical considerations involved in studying it. throughout the course, we will consider how ghanaian 'popular' musicians and related groups have created a range of sound worlds under considerable social, political, and commercial pressure. musc 117 music cultures of the world term: spring, fall credits: 4 this course serves as an introduction to the variety of music genres found in cultures around the world outside the western art music tradition. students will be introduced not only to diﬀerent musical styles, but also to their aesthetic foundations, relation to social and cultural contexts, historical developments, and cross-cultural interactions and influences. degree requirements f5 f9 musc 118 african-american music term: spring, fall credits: 4 this course is a survey of african american musical traditions from colonial times to the present. students will examine the development of these styles, paying particular attention to the way in which they fused cultures from around the globe. the influence of the music in the united states and around the world will also be studied. degree requirements f5 f9 musc 119 the music of latin america term: spring, fall credits: 4 this course is a survey of the variety of indigenous, folk, and art music of latin america. emphasis is on the sound of the music and on the cultural and social contexts of various cultures and the historical development of music in latin america from the colonial period to the present. degree requirements f5 f9 musc 120 the history of the blues term: spring credits: 4 this course traces the origins of blues from pre-colonial africa to the present. through repeated, active listening of blues recordings (1912-present), reading a wide selection of works from the foremost scholars of blues, and engaging with in-class discussion, students will gain an in-depth understanding of the blues—i.e., sounds, styles, people, places, compositional processes, traditions, recording and marketing practices, mythology, scholarship, and legacy. all aspects of the blues will be examined and analyze through the proper historical and socio-cultural context. in doing so, students will center the study of the blues around issues of identity, place, and race, although the main objective of this class is to gain a better understanding of blues as a musical product. /uni00a0 degree requirements f3 f5 musc 121 literature and music term: fall credits: 4 this course, literature and music, will introduce the student to the great body of literature of a variety of genres, and how the literature is set to music. students will develop abilities necessary to interpret and analyze great works of poetry, primarily. the student will focus on several qualities of the literary works, and compare and contrast these literary qualities to their corresponding musical qualities. for example, what is it about the formal scheme of a poem that dictates the form of its composition as a musical masterpiece? what is the poem’s rhyming pattern? its tone and voice? how does one go about properly delivering this poem as a work of literature, and thus as a performance of musical art? students will also study the classics of shakespeare and develop their knowledge of the famous tragedies and comedies that became the librettos of celebrated operas. in this course, the literary works will be primarily in english; however, there will also be an emphasis on german romantic poetry set as lieder (german art songs), french mélodie (french art songs), and the body of english poetry used as the texts for english art songs throughout music history. degree requirements f4 f5 musc 130 gender and sexuality in music term: spring, fall credits: 4 since plato first warned against “feminizing” musical modes in his republic, music has been an important location in western culture for circulating ideologies of gender and sexuality. this course is an exploration of gender and sexuality in western music, in both art and vernacular traditions. we will consider such topics as musical constructions of masculinity and femininity; the performance of gender; feminist music criticism; queer theory; castrati; and music as sexual politics. degree requirements f9 f5 musc 140 music and healing term: spring, fall credits: 4 this course examines music and healing from an historical, cross-cultural, and applied clinical perspective, exploring current applications of music and healing—inside and outside the professional medical community. the course will address healing rituals and methodologies of non-western cultures, applications of music to healing through modern western music therapy, the incorporation of music into contemporary alternative therapies and energy healing, and the field of medical ethnomusicology, which has emerged as a means to understand similarities between these seemingly disparate disciplines. it oﬀers students opportunities to learn about and experience the powerful connections that exist between music and human psychology, physiology, and spirituality (mind, body, and spirit) through experiential class activities like drum circles and music and meditation, course readings, guest lectures, documentary film, audio-visual materials, critical discussion, and community service learning. through reflective assignments and exams, students will also have the opportunity to make comparisons across diﬀerent conceptions and applications of music in health and wellness as well as make connections with their own beliefs and uses of music. this course includes a service-learning component that requires students to engage with the local community in connecting and applying their knowledge of music and healing oﬀ campus. /uni00a0 degree requirements f5 f11 musc 145 psychology of music term: spring, fall credits: 4 this course is an introduction to the multidisciplinary study of music in the human experience. there will be a review and critical analysis of traditional and emerging issues in this rapidly evolving field. in addition to developing a musical vocabulary and critical listening skills, the course will address the questions of what is music and how the mind responds to musical stimuli through the confluence of various disciplines, including anthropology, biology, education, musicology, neuroscience, philosophy, physics, psychology, and sociology. note: students who have had musc 204 or a 300-level music theory course should register for musc 345. degree requirements f5 f8 musc 146 psychology of film music term: spring, fall credits: 4 music plays an integral role in film-making and serves many functions, such as conveying emotion, heightening tension, and influencing interpretation and inferences about events and characters. all of these musical applications depend on complex mental processes that are being identified through research on human participants in multimedia contexts. this field includes a broad range of disciplines including psychology, musicology, neuroscience, media studies, film, and communications. students will develop and use musical vocabulary to describe the aural stimuli of specific cinematic productions and also read and critique empirical research in the intersecting fields. note: students who have had musc 204 or a 300-level music theory course should register for musc 346. degree requirements f5 musc 150 dance for musical theatre term: spring, fall credits: 2 or 4 a physical exploration of musical theatre dance based on a repertory of broadway productions, this course will edwin choreography that runs the gamut of musical theatre storytelling in america. dance for musical theatre is an amalgamation of many diﬀerent styles of movement, and this course will journey the mind and body through those genres to examine how specific physical executions and formations can move an audience. course meets the f5 requirement when taken for 4 credits, or when taken for 2 credits and combined with other f5 courses for a total of 4 credits. /uni00a0 degree requirements f5 musc 160 piano/classical term: spring, fall credits: 1 all applied music instruction is oﬀered fall and spring semesters and meets the f5 requirements with four semesters of 1 credit each. students enrolled in applied music will be charged an additional fee each semester for private lessons.* degree requirements f5 musc 160 piano/jazz term: spring, fall credits: 1 all applied music instruction is oﬀered fall and spring semesters and meets the f5 requirements with four semesters of 1 credit each. students enrolled in applied music will be charged an additional fee each semester for private lessons.* degree requirements f5 musc 161 organ term: spring, fall credits: 1 all applied music instruction is oﬀered fall and spring semesters and meets the f5 requirements with four semesters of 1 credit each. students enrolled in applied music will be charged an additional fee each semester for private lessons.* degree requirements f5 musc 162 harpischord term: spring, fall credits: 1 all applied music instruction is oﬀered fall and spring semesters and meets the f5 requirements with four semesters of 1 credit each. students enrolled in applied music will be charged an additional fee each semester for private lessons.* degree requirements f5 musc 163 voice term: spring, fall credits: 1 all applied music instruction is oﬀered fall and spring semesters and meets the f5 requirements with four semesters of 1 credit each. students enrolled in applied music will be charged an additional fee each semester for private lessons.* degree requirements f5 musc 164 guitar/classical term: spring, fall credits: 1 all applied music instruction is oﬀered fall and spring semesters and meets the f5 requirements with four semesters of 1 credit each. students enrolled in applied music will be charged an additional fee each semester for private lessons.* degree requirements f5 musc 164 guitar/commercial term: spring, fall credits: 1 all applied music instruction is oﬀered fall and spring semesters and meets the f5 requirements with four semesters of 1 credit each. students enrolled in applied music will be charged an additional fee each semester for private lessons.* degree requirements f5 musc 164 guitar/jazz term: spring, fall credits: 1 all applied music instruction is oﬀered fall and spring semesters and meets the f5 requirements with four semesters of 1 credit each. students enrolled in applied music will be charged an additional fee each semester for private lessons.* degree requirements f5 musc 165 harp term: spring, fall credits: 1 all applied music instruction is oﬀered fall and spring semesters and meets the f5 requirements with four semesters of 1 credit each. students enrolled in applied music will be charged an additional fee each semester for private lessons.* degree requirements f5 musc 166 violin term: spring, fall credits: 1 all applied music instruction is oﬀered fall and spring semesters and meets the f5 requirements with four semesters of 1 credit each. students enrolled in applied music will be charged an additional fee each semester for private lessons.* degree requirements f5 musc 167 viola term: spring, fall credits: 1 all applied music instruction is oﬀered fall and spring semesters and meets the f5 requirements with four semesters of 1 credit each. students enrolled in applied music will be charged an additional fee each semester for private lessons.* degree requirements f5 musc 168 cello term: spring, fall credits: 1 all applied music instruction is oﬀered fall and spring semesters and meets the f5 requirements with four semesters of 1 credit each. students enrolled in applied music will be charged an additional fee each semester for private lessons.* degree requirements f5 musc 169 bass/jazz term: spring, fall credits: 1 all applied music instruction is oﬀered fall and spring semesters and meets the f5 requirements with four semesters of 1 credit each. students enrolled in applied music will be charged an additional fee each semester for private lessons.* degree requirements f5 musc 169 bass/orchestral term: spring, fall credits: 1 all applied music instruction is oﬀered fall and spring semesters and meets the f5 requirements with four semesters of 1 credit each. students enrolled in applied music will be charged an additional fee each semester for private lessons.* degree requirements f5 musc 170 flute term: spring, fall credits: 1 all applied music instruction is oﬀered fall and spring semesters and meets the f5 requirements with four semesters of 1 credit each. students enrolled in applied music will be charged an additional fee each semester for private lessons.* degree requirements f5 musc 171 oboe term: spring, fall credits: 1 all applied music instruction is oﬀered fall and spring semesters and meets the f5 requirements with four semesters of 1 credit each. students enrolled in applied music will be charged an additional fee each semester for private lessons.* degree requirements f5 musc 172 clarinet term: spring, fall credits: 1 all applied music instruction is oﬀered fall and spring semesters and meets the f5 requirements with four semesters of 1 credit each. students enrolled in applied music will be charged an additional fee each semester for private lessons.* degree requirements f5 musc 173 bassoon term: spring, fall credits: 1 all applied music instruction is oﬀered fall and spring semesters and meets the f5 requirements with four semesters of 1 credit each. students enrolled in applied music will be charged an additional fee each semester for private lessons.* degree requirements f5 musc 174 french horn term: spring, fall credits: 1 all applied music instruction is oﬀered fall and spring semesters and meets the f5 requirements with four semesters of 1 credit each. students enrolled in applied music will be charged an additional fee each semester for private lessons.* degree requirements f5 musc 175 trumpet term: spring, fall credits: 1 all applied music instruction is oﬀered fall and spring semesters and meets the f5 requirements with four semesters of 1 credit each. students enrolled in applied music will be charged an additional fee each semester for private lessons.* degree requirements f5 musc 176 trombone/tuba term: spring, fall credits: 1 all applied music instruction is oﬀered fall and spring semesters and meets the f5 requirements with four semesters of 1 credit each. students enrolled in applied music will be charged an additional fee each semester for private lessons.* degree requirements f5 musc 177 percussion/jazz term: spring, fall credits: 1 all applied music instruction is oﬀered fall and spring semesters and meets the f5 requirements with four semesters of 1 credit each. students enrolled in applied music will be charged an additional fee each semester for private lessons.* degree requirements f5 musc 177 percussion/orchestral term: spring, fall credits: 1 all applied music instruction is oﬀered fall and spring semesters and meets the f5 requirements with four semesters of 1 credit each. students enrolled in applied music will be charged an additional fee each semester for private lessons.* degree requirements f5 musc 178 saxophone term: spring, fall credits: 1 all applied music instruction is oﬀered fall and spring semesters and meets the f5 requirements with four semesters of 1 credit each. students enrolled in applied music will be charged an additional fee each semester for private lessons.* degree requirements f5 musc 179 composition term: spring, fall credits: 1 all applied music instruction is oﬀered fall and spring semesters and meets the f5 requirements with four semesters of 1 credit each. students enrolled in applied music will be charged an additional fee each semester for private lessons.* ** the applied music fee will be charged to each student every semester enrolled in musc 179. ** musc 204 and musc 307 are highly recomended prior to enrolling in these lessons. degree requirements f5 musc 180 applied improvisation term: fall credits: 1 students in applied improvisation will develop an improvisational approach to making music through the study and application of theory, concepts, and strategies. while lessons will be taught primarily from a jazz perspective, improvisational approaches from a variety of musical styles, such as blues, rock, folk/americana, etc., will be explored. students who perform on any instrument are eligible to enroll with the permission of the instructor. musc 181 rhodes orchestra term: spring, fall credits: 1 the rhodes orchestra provides a performance experience for string orchestra repertoire. the orchestra frequently combines with the wind ensemble to present music written for full symphonic orchestra in several concerts on and oﬀ campus etc. rental instruments may be available. degree requirements f5 musc 182 rhodes wind ensemble term: spring, fall credits: 1 the rhodes wind ensemble concentrates on music written for large chamber music and band works for woodwind, brass, and percussion. the wind ensemble frequently combines with the orchestra to present music written for full symphonic orchestra in several concerts on and oﬀ campus etc. rental instruments may be available. degree requirements f5 musc 184 rhodes jazz ensemble term: spring, fall credits: 1 this ensemble, the college’s big band, performs multiple times per semester on campus and around memphis. students explore literature from all historic periods of jazz with most concerts centering on a theme. concepts such as improvisation, interpretation, and ensemble technique are studied and put into practice, and students have access to renowned jazz musicians through concerts and clinics. the ensemble is open to all singers and instrumentalists, pending an audition with the director. degree requirements f5 musc 186 instrumental ensemble term: spring, fall credits: 1 applied music ensemble degree requirements f5 musc 188 selected chamber ensembles term: spring, fall credits: 1 chamber ensembles include but are not limited to string ensembles, brass quintet,/uni00a0flute ensemble,/uni00a0guitar ensemble, harp ensemble - these also both have their own numbers, i believe - if not, leave them here,/uni00a0piano trio, string quartet, woodwind quintet, early music ensemble, and percussion ensemble. jazz combos include but are not limited to jazz combos, vocal jazz ensemble, commercial music ensemble,/uni00a0and folk/traditional music ensembles. all ensembles and combos/uni00a0are auditioned and coached by music faculty who are professional musicians. /uni00a0 degree requirements f5 musc 189 collaborative piano term: spring, fall credits: 1 competent players may earn credit for studio and/or recital accompanying of vocalists and instrumentalists. degree requirements f5 musc 190 rhodes singers term: spring, fall credits: 1 rhodes singers is an auditioned concert choir which appears regularly in concerts on and oﬀ campus. they perform repertoire from all stylistic periods, both a cappella and accompanied. this ensemble has a rich history of touring the united states for over sixty years, and frequently tours abroad. students who participate in this ensemble are expected to commit to a full academic year. degree requirements f5 musc 192 rhodes mastersingers chorale term: spring, fall credits: 1 this ensemble comprises experienced singers from the campus and greater-memphis community and students. there are up to four concerts each year and the repertoire includes a variety of musical styles. they frequently perform with the memphis symphony orchestra. membership is by audition. degree requirements f5 musc 193 rhodes women's chorus term: spring, fall credits: 1 this ensemble is open to female students, and repertoire is taken from a variety of musical genres. the ensemble presents a major concert each semester and makes several program appearances in the local community. membership is by audition. degree requirements f5 musc 194 scenes from musical theatre and opera term: spring credits: 1 scenes from/uni00a0musical theatre and opera is a performance class designed for students of all levels interested in performing scenes from musical theatre, opera, and operetta. students will be guided by rhodes music faculty in all aspects of preparation and performance of such scenes, including: musical and vocal coaching, work in various styles, dramatic coaching, staging, and production elements such as writing and delivering introductions to scenes, staging, basic stagecraft and lighting./uni00a0 the class will incorporate issues relevant to lyric theatre such as text and musical interpretation, characterization, blocking, movement and scenic/presentation elements. musical and vocal dramatization will be key elements of the course. students will be cast in various scenes selected by the faculty, appropriate to each student’s vocal and musical level of development. they will present their work in a public performance at the conclusion of the semester. this course will be attractive for majors, minors, and non-majors alike. while there are no prerequisites, enrollment is dependent upon co-enrollment in musc 163, applied voice lessons, and students must have the recommendation of their applied voice teacher. musc 196 vocal ensemble term: spring, fall credits: 1 vocal ensembles include, but are not limited to vocal jazz ensemble and chamber singers. the vocal jazz ensemble performs multiple times per semester on campus and around memphis. students explore literature from all historic periods and stylistic nuances of jazz. concepts such as improvisation, interpretation, appropriate vocal methods and ensemble technique are studied and put into practice, and students have access to renowned jazz musicians through concerts and clinics. the ensemble is open to all singers by audition, and to some instrumentalists forming a rhythm section. chamber singers is a small, highly select, auditioned,/uni00a0a cappella satb/uni00a0choral ensemble, chosen from students within rhodes singers. it is comprised of 12-16 singers,/uni00a0performing a variety of repertoire appropriate for a small, select vocal ensemble, including period music, contemporary music, and music sung in many languages. /uni00a0 /uni00a0 degree requirements f5 musc 201 american music: twentieth-century american music term: fall credits: 4 this course will focus on the development of critical thinking and writing skills through the study of the american culture and its eﬀect on the music, composers, and entertainers of the twentieth century. the student will consider the influence of the culture on twentiethcentury american music by reading about, listening to, and discussing classical and popular american music. the music of the memphis region will be a focus and will require group excursions to musically important sites in the city of memphis. students will be expected to express their own views both about the music being studied and the larger question of the role of music and art in american society. degree requirements f2i f5 musc 204 understanding musicianship term: fall credits: 4 the development of musicianship skills is a life-long journey for musicians at all levels. this course is an introduction to the concepts and the various approaches used to describe music, to create music, and to perform music. listening skills and analytical skills will develop the ability to “think in sound” and use an appropriate musical vocabulary. the development of aural skills and keyboard skills will reinforce each individual’s performance area. degree requirements f5 musc 222 music technology term: fall credits: 4 this course is designed as an introduction to both utilitarian and creative concepts, which will assist students in developing practical and artistic applications in music technology. the course will develop a solid foundation for those wishing to use technology to enhance their musical understanding. degree requirements f5 musc 224 creation of virtual ensemble credits: 4 how to create a virtual ensemble. this course is designed to introduce the student to the components and procedures needed to create a virtual ensemble. it is designed to enable the musician (vocal and instrumental) to discover and process the materials needed, the steps required, oﬀer the skills necessary and the mechanisms needed in order to create a virtual ensemble, whether it is vocal or instrumental. this course is oﬀered with a focus to cultivate essential, basic skills at a foundational level, entry level, revealing the processes needed to create a virtual ensemble. the intended outcome of this course is to produce a virtual ensemble product at a rudimentary level, including both audio and video components. the course will address creating, combining, mixing and editing audio and video recordings through the process of post- production. the student needs to be familiar with computer hardware software, and have knowledge of musical notation enough to eﬀectively work in this process. pre-requisites: computer skills and music notation knowledge: musc 204 or equivalent, or permission of instructor degree requirements f5 musc 227 western art music i term: fall credits: 4 in this course we will study the rise of western art music from religious and folk traditions as it is constructed and interpreted with primary sources, specifically musical scores and contemporary criticism. in musc 227, we will examine gregorian chant and early polyphonic genres, the growth of polyphony in the mass, motet, and madrigal, early instrumental music, and european genres of the seventeenth and eighteenth centuries: opera, oratorio, cantata, concerto, suite, sonata, and keyboard music. in musc 228 we will study the evolution of styles and genres from the mid eighteenth to the twenty-first centuries, with a particular focus on the western traditional musical “canon” as it is constructed and interpreted with primary sources, specifically musical scores and contemporary criticism. the course will examine the transformation of musical language in both secular and sacred music genres. the intellectual and cultural events of this same time will also claim our attention, on account of their very direct eﬀects on composition, performance, and aesthetics of music. students will gain factual knowledge of these musical trends and traditions, as well as a broader understanding and appreciation of the music of these eras. in addition, through the final paper, students will develop their written skills. /uni00a0 degree requirements f3 prerequisites first-year writing seminar musc 228 western art music ii term: spring, fall credits: 4 in this course we will study the rise of western art music from religious and folk traditions as it is constructed and interpreted with primary sources, specifically musical scores and contemporary criticism. in musc 227, we will examine gregorian chant and early polyphonic genres, the growth of polyphony in the mass, motet, and madrigal, early instrumental music, and european genres of the seventeenth and eighteenth centuries: opera, oratorio, cantata, concerto, suite, sonata, and keyboard music. in musc 228 we will study the evolution of styles and genres from the mid eighteenth to the twenty-first centuries, with a particular focus on the western traditional musical “canon” as it is constructed and interpreted with primary sources, specifically musical scores and contemporary criticism. the course will examine the transformation of musical language in both secular and sacred music genres. the intellectual and cultural events of this same time will also claim our attention, on account of their very direct eﬀects on composition, performance, and aesthetics of music. students will gain factual knowledge of these musical trends and traditions, as well as a broader understanding and appreciation of the music of these eras. in addition, through the final paper, students will develop their written skills. /uni00a0 degree requirements f3 prerequisites first-year writing seminar musc 229 music in the modern era term: spring, fall credits: 4 in this course we will study the evolution of styles and genres from ca. 1900 to the present day, with a particular focus on the western traditional musical “canon.” the course will examine the transformation of musical language in both secular and sacred music genres. the intellectual and cultural events of this same time will also claim our attention, on account of their very direct eﬀects on composition, performance, and aesthetics of music. students will gain factual knowledge of these musical trends and traditions, as well as a broader understanding of how historical forces have changed the music of these eras. in addition, through the final research paper and presentation students will develop their oral and written skills. degree requirements f3 prerequisites first-year writing seminar musc 230 music and drama of eighteenth century england term: spring, fall credits: 4 this class will examine the rich musical history of the performing arts and theatre in eighteenth- century england. this was a period when theatre and opera worlds mixed, and fair-booth burlesque and musical theatre—the ancestors of english music hall and vaudeville —flourished at the expense of “legitimate” english drama. in this course we will study the various genres of eighteenth-century english musical and theatrical forms, including ballets (both french and english), pantomimes, afterpieces, burlesques, ballad operas, pastiches, and mid-century attempts at a native “serious” opera. through primary source materials, we will explore the eighteenth- century shakespeare revival, the hegemony of italian opera in london, the emerging idea of the “star” performer, music in the london pleasure gardens, the fad for handelian oratorios, mozart and haydn in london, illegitimate theatre, life in touring theatrical companies, and the rise of popular music culture and marketing. prerequisites first-year writing seminar musc 231 musical paris 1870-1940 term: spring, fall credits: 4 this course will examine of the development of french music in relation to other arts and societal events, focusing on paris as the center of new artistic developments at the turn of the twentieth- century. the course will provide an introduction to artistic movements during this period, including musical composers: fauré, debussy, ravel, satie, and stravinsky. students will develop a vocabulary to describe and discuss musical works in general and of this period specifically, integrate musical works into the context of the early twentiethcentury parisian society. degree requirements f3 f5 prerequisites first-year writing seminar musc 235 music post-1945 term: spring, fall credits: 4 this course will focus on the repertoire of the past six decades, providing an opportunity to develop more analytical and verbal skills in regards to modern compositions, composers, and compositional techniques through visual and aural stimuli. the course will also focus on the diﬃcult skill of writing about music. prerequisites first-year writing seminar musc 250 music urbanism term: spring credits: 4 this course will examine music urbanism, an exploration of how music impacts and shapes our built environment and an investigation into how music can build healthier, more vibrant cities. students will consider some of the ideals and promises of music urbanism, from addressing gentrification and development without displacement to how a strategic approach for music can impact myriad urban issues from aﬀordable housing to public transportation. we will engage with leaders in cities across the u.s. and in europe who are working in varied roles that deal with music urbanism, from those leading a city oﬃce of arts and culture to those running nonprofits focused on music education, economy or infrastructure. students will develop solutions to real urban challenges around music and will learn how to approach arts and culture strategy. musc 251 advanced jazz/contemporary dance term: spring, fall credits: 2 or 4 a physical examination of dance as an art form and means of expression, emotion and storytelling, this course familiarizes the student with practices, application, technique, terminology and philosophies of jazz dance in a practical dance class setting. jazz dance is an amalgamation of many diﬀerent styles of movement, and this course will journey the body through those genres to fulfill an outbound expression of the inner life. course meets the f5 requirement when taken for 4 credits, or when taken for 2 credits and combined with other f5 courses for a total of 4 credits. degree requirements f5 musc 262 music and community in memphis term: fall credits: 2 in the course, students will join the mike curb institute for music to explore the richness and complexity of the urban setting of memphis through research and study, reflection, and real-world experience. theories and best practices of community integrative education will be studied and applied to tangible projects through the unifying theme of music and community. students will met weekly and also meet independently with their assigned project teams. the class projects are also the projects of the curb institute and project teams will consist of students from the class along with curb fellows. this course is cross-listed with urbn 262 /uni00a0 musc 265 history of musical theatre term: spring, fall credits: 4 surveying the art form known as musical theatre from its multiple origins through contemporary trends, we will use music, film, librettos and scores, and local productions to gain a broader understanding and appreciation of this performance genre. while we will look at the development of the musical as an art form, we will also explore musicals as vehicles for the wider social and cultural themes of each era. open to the general student, the course also serves as an elective for the major/minor in music. prerequisites first-year writing seminar musc 305 advanced topics in music term: spring, fall credits: 1-4 content of the course varies with instructor. selected topics may include form & analysis, advanced analysis, advanced musicianship, music theory pedagogy, introduction to musicology, among others. this course may be repeated for credit as long as topics covered are diﬀerent. musc 306 mathematical music analysis: post- tonal theory term: spring, fall credits: 4 this course examines analytical and compositional techniques through a survey of twentieth and twenty-first-century repertoire. topics include, but are not limited to, modulo 12, pitch centricity, symmetry, set theory, combinatorics, inversional and transpositional equivalence, and serialism. degree requirements f6 prerequisites understanding musicianship musc 307 composition and orchestration term: spring, fall credits: 4 this course emphasizes learning concepts and techniques of music composition through the study of music theory and structure. orchestration, the art of scoring for various instruments, will include the acquisition of basic elements, such as the range, transposition and timbre of each instrument. assignments will include both original formal designs as well as and arrangements for a variety of ensembles. beyond writing with pencil and paper, basic skills in music notation software will be developed as well. the final project will be a short composition orchestrated for the available class personnel. prerequisites understanding musicianship musc 308 centuries of counterpoint term: spring, fall credits: 4 counterpoint, “punctus contra punctum,” is the technique of writing independent melodic lines that work together to create eﬀective music. this course will include analysis, composition, and performance of contrapuntal models, focusing on the 16th, 18th and 20th centuries. prerequisites understanding musicianship musc 309 performance and analysis term: spring, fall credits: 4 the analysis of music is a life-long learning process that helps a musician to understand, to hear and to perform a work of art. the principal outcome of this course should be an increased awareness of the elements of musical form and how they are important in developing an interpretation of that musical work. while there is an inherent challenge in describing music through the written word, the final project will be a written analysis with either a live performance or multiple recordings degree requirements f2i prerequisites understanding musicianship musc 310 practical musicianship term: spring, fall credits: 4 this course will focus on the development of skills for the advanced musician through practical applications. by expanding one’s abilities and knowledge of music theory, aural skills, keyboard harmony, and score reading, provides musicianship tools necessary for intelligent and critical listening, thinking, and performing. prerequisites understanding musicianship musc 311 tonal harmony and analysis term: spring, fall credits: 4 this course develops written, aural, and keyboard skills as applied to common-practice musical traditions. beginning with a review of music fundamentals, topics include: diatonic harmony and functions, voice leading guidelines, phrase structure, chromatic harmony, extended tertian harmony, small and large formal designs, and 19th-century genres. prerequisites understanding musicianship musc 312 jazz theory term: spring, fall credits: 4 this course bridges theory and practice through the language of jazz improvisation and various jazz styles. a strong theoretical foundation is built from music fundamentals through post-tonal theory, while integrating aural skills, keyboard skills and improvisation. prerequisites understanding musicianship musc 313 advanced analysis term: spring, fall credits: 4 this course will establish an awareness and understanding of appropriate analytical techniques, and develop facility in critical and analytical thought. selected works studied will span western music history using a variety of analytical approaches. as a good musical analysis puts into words what the best musicians hear after having listened to a particular piece of music attentively over time; assignments will focus on the challenge of writing about the music. prerequisites understanding musicianship musc 321 composition lab term: spring credits: 1-4 this course is intended for students with experience in music who are interested in composing. the course will benefit both those with previous composition experience and those who have none. each student in the class will write music and perform the music of their colleagues in a lab setting. throughout the semester, various techniques and styles will be studied and analyzed, and each student will write a short work based on that week’s topic. techniques and styles to be covered include modal composition, atonal composition, process music (serialism, minimalism, etc), indeterminacy and aleatory, extended techniques, and more. the course will culminate with each student writing a final composition project to be performed in an open concert with all of the lab participants. /uni00a0 musc 322 advanced music technology term: spring, fall credits: 4 this course continues the trajectory begun in musc 222, providing a deeper palette of technological resources to convey musical ideas. students explore theoretical concepts of sound design/synthesis and algorithmic composition, and investigate the components of real world sounds, learning object oriented programming skills necessary to replicate them. students also explore live electronic improvisation with ableton live, and learn the techniques of loop-based composition and performance, as well as methods of remixing and resampling. this course will delve further into the recording and mixing techniques learned in musc 222. students will learn specific strategies for recording diﬀerent instruments and sonic environments, as well as further ways to add detail, clarity, and interest to their mixes. basic concepts of mastering will be introduced. prerequisites music technology musc 323 audio engineering:history, theory, practice term: fall credits: 4 sponsored by the mike curb institute for music, this course will examine the progression of sound recording in the 20th and 21st centuries, from the phonograph to protools. students will learn about the history of recording, paying special attention to the role of memphis in that history, and will gain hands-on experience and knowledge about recording theories and techniques. co-taught with a professional recording engineer and in partnership with memphis recording studios, the class will teach students not only tangible skills in audio recording, but also a framework for understanding the impact of recording on the city of memphis and the world./uni00a0/uni00a0/uni00a0/uni00a0 hours will be spent in the classroom and in visiting recording studios in the area for hands-on field work and learning. /uni00a0 prerequisite: completion of musc 222 and 322 is preferred, but not required. musc 345 psychology of music term: spring, fall credits: 4 this course is an introduction to the multidisciplinary study of music in the human experience. there will be a review and critical analysis of traditional and emerging issues in this rapidly evolving field. in addition to the further development of the musical vocabulary, critical listening skills and analytic skills, the course will address the questions of what is music and how the mind responds to musical stimuli through the confluence of various disciplines, including anthropology, biology, education, musicology, neuroscience, philosophy, physics, psychology, and sociology. degree requirements f8 musc 346 psychology of film music term: spring, fall credits: 4 music plays an integral role in film-making and serves many functions, such as conveying emotion, heightening tension, and influencing interpretation and inferences about events and characters. all of these musical applications depend on complex mental processes that are being identified through research on human participants in multimedia contexts. this field includes a broad range of disciplines including psychology, musicology, neuroscience, media studies, film, and communications. students will develop and use musical vocabulary to describe the aural stimuli of specific cinematic productions and also read and critique empirical research in the intersecting fields. prerequisites understanding musicianship musc 365 advanced topics in music technology term: spring credits: 4 this course is intended to deepen the student’s understanding of music technology and production by focusing on specialized and advanced skills beyond those introduced in musc 222. each iteration of the class will focus on diﬀerent topic in a rotating list, including, but not limited to sound design for media, interactive music, multimedia art, and advanced composition through technology. /uni00a0 prerequisites music technology musc 382 music and community in memphis term: fall credits: 2 in the course, students will join the mike curb institute for music to explore the richness and complexity of the urban setting of memphis through research and study, reflection, and real-world experience. theories and best practices of community integrative education will be studied and applied to tangible projects through the unifying theme of music and community. student will meet weekly, meet independently with their assigned project teams, and serve as liaisons for group projects. this course is cross-listed with urbn 382 /uni00a0 prerequisites music and community in memphis music and community in memphis musc 414 conducting i term: fall credits: 2 this course serves as an introduction to the fundamental skills of conducting. seminar-style conducting lessons that focus on the skills of conducting, and emphasize reading, studying and communicating a score to an ensemble. prerequisites understanding musicianship musc 415 conducting ii term: spring credits: 2 the course serves to develop strategies for leading eﬀective rehearsals and applying the skills developed in 414 to musical repertoire and ensembles. prerequisites conducting i musc 422 arts entrepreneurship term: spring, fall credits: 4 this course is designed to help students identify and develop methods to apply their creative abilities in practical ways and to introduce the entrepreneurial process in the context of the arts industry. the course readings, lectures, and assignments will provide a basic knowledge of arts and music business practices which will be particularly useful to students preparing for a self-managed career where their income is generated from performance, recording, composing or organizing musical events and/or setting up a music related business enterprise. students will learn how to write a project proposal, prepare a budget, research funding options, and develop a marketing plan. the aim of the course is to help to guide students in understanding their unique talents in order to better understand their own personal aspirations and reach their full professional potential. open only to juniors and seniors. musc 451 music cognition research practicum term: spring, fall credits: 1-4 /uni00a0/uni00a0 musc 452 music cognition research practicum term: spring, fall credits: 1-4 /uni00a0/uni00a0 musc 460 internship term: spring, fall credits: 1-4 the internship program provides an experiential approach to the learning process and aﬀords music students the opportunity to work in regional music organizations for academic credit (memphis opera, memphis symphony orchestra, church music programs, memphis playhouse, and the like). internship placements are designed to complement learning goals and career plans by allowing the student to apply theoretical principles and skills learned in the traditional classroom. placements are arranged by the director of career services and work schedules are arranged by the student and on-site supervisor(s). typically students work on specific projects related to their career interest and compatible with the goals and interests of the sponsoring organization. other requirements of the internship include submission of a resume and application, interview with the on-site supervisor, participation in classroom seminars which focus on longterm career planning and job search skills, completion of written self-assessment assignments, and the like. internships are available to second-semester junior and senior music majors with possible availability to majors from other departments. arrangements for internships are made the semester prior to the actual experience. under special circumstances, the number of credit hours may vary from 1-4, but under no circumstances will more than 8 credits be allowed to count toward the credits required for graduation. degree requirements f11 musc 485 senior seminar term: fall credits: 2 this seminar provides a capstone experience for the music major through instruction in research and writing methods. this course will prepare the student for a public presentation in the spring semester (see music 486.) musc 486 senior presentation (a continuation of 485) term: spring credits: 2 each music major will design and present an appropriate portion of their senior research project in consultation with the music faculty, and will choose one of the following: * a recital performance with program notes. * a paper presentation based on original research. * a performance of an original composition with program notes. * a lecture-recital based on original research. musc 495 honors tutorial term: spring, fall credits: 4 /uni00a0/uni00a0 musc 496 honors tutorial term: spring, fall credits: 4 /uni00a0/uni00a0 neur 270 neuroscience term: spring, fall credits: 4 this course examines the structure and function of the nervous system. topics range from communication within individual neurons to higher order brain functions such as learning, memory, perception, states of consciousness, language and the regulation of motivation and emotion. psychiatric and neurological disorders will also be discussed. particular attention will be given to methods and research design in the neurosciences. neur 299 topics in neuroscience credits: 4 a special topics course in neuroscience. the format may be lecture or seminar. prerequisites neuroscience neur 300 topics in neuroscience with lab term: spring credits: 4, 1 the topic of this course will vary with the instructor, but it will consist of a 4-credit hour lecture section plus associated 1-credit hour laboratory experience. this course will fullful a depth requirement within the neuroscience major. the course will delve in depth into a topic within neuroscience, and also introduce students to modern research techniques within that area. the scientific method will be emphasized within the laboratory, including the collection, analysis, and presentation of data. neur 318 clinical neuroscience term: fall credits: 4 a critical examination of the/uni00a0neurobiological mechanisms of mental illness. current biobehavioral perspectives of potential causes and treatments of psychological disorders such as schizophrenia, eating disorders, drug abuse, depression, and obsessivecompulsive disorder are considered. an emphasis is placed on the interaction of nature and nurture (e.g. stress) contributing to both vulnerability and resilience to mental illness. prerequisites neuroscience neur 345 cognitive neuroscience and lab term: fall credits: 4, 1 this course examines how structure and function of the brain give rise to cognitive processes. we will explore the major cognitive systems, including object recognition, attention, memory, language, emotion, social cognition, and executive function, and learn about the cutting-edge technologies being employed to study these processes. in the lab portion of this course, students will be exposed to an array of techniques used in cognitive neuroscience research. lab activities include a trip to lebonheur children’s hospital to observe transcranial magnetic stimulation, analysis of magneto encephalography data, and collection of electro encephalogram recordings. various methodological and analytical approaches will be explored first-hand so that students are familiarized with the broad spectrum of approaches used in modern neuroscience. prerequisites introduction to psychological science neur 350 neuroscience research methods term: fall credits: 4 this laboratory methods course is designed to expose students to a wide range of neuroscience techniques including electrophysiology, stereotaxic surgery, behavioral pharmacology, tissue fixation and sectioning, histology, immunohistochemistry, western blotting, blood and salivary hormone analysis, and various psychophysiological measures. the class will comprise short lectures accompanying longer laboratory exercises. prerequisites neuroscience neur 399 junior honors tutorial term: spring credits: 1 junior neuroscience majors who are considering pursuing honors research are required to enroll in this preparatory tutorial. neur 451 research in neuroscience term: spring, fall credits: 1-4 qualified students may conduct laboratory research in neuroscience. four credits of research may be used to satisfy one of the three breadth requirements for the neuroscience major. requirements include at least three hours of work per week per credit, regular meetings with the faculty sponsor, and a formal presentation of the research product upon completion. interested students should consult the neuroscience program committee. neur 452 research in neuroscience term: spring, fall credits: 1-4 qualified students may conduct laboratory research in neuroscience. four credits of research may be used to satisfy one of the three breadth requirements for the neuroscience major. requirements include at least three hours of work per week per credit, regular meetings with the faculty sponsor, and a formal presentation of the research product upon completion. interested students should consult the neuroscience program committee. neur 485 senior seminar term: spring, fall credits: 4 all neuroscience majors are required to enroll in senior seminar during one semester of their senior year. senior seminar is intended to be a capstone academic experience that involves student presentations and discussions of current primary literature in neuroscience. students will also prepare a research paper on a current topic in the field. neur 486 senior seminar term: spring, fall credits: 4 all neuroscience majors are required to enroll in senior seminar during one semester of their senior year. senior seminar is intended to be a capstone academic experience that involves student presentations and discussions of current primary literature in neuroscience. students will also prepare a research paper on a current topic in the field. neur 495 honors tutorial term: spring, fall credits: 4-8 for seniors accepted into the neuroscience honors research program. neur 496 honors tutorial term: spring, fall credits: 4-8 for seniors accepted into the neuroscience honors research program. phil 101 introduction to philosophy term: spring, fall credits: 4 a writing-intensive seminar that introduces students to central philosophical ideas and debates. in recent years, we have oﬀered black mirror and philosophy. in this course, students use the netflix series black mirror to investigate philosophical questions such as: do we have free will? do some circumstances call for the violation of standard moral principles for the sake of the greater good? what are the appropriate limits of privacy in the digital age? how have new technologies reoriented our personal relationships, and what are the implications for social and political life? throughout the course, students reflect on the ongoing relevance of philosophy for contemporary life. they also learn key argumentation and philosophical writing skills. *this course is open to first- year and sophomore students only. typically oﬀered every fall. degree requirements f2i phil 105 introductory seminar in philosophy term: fall credits: 4 philosophy intrepidly examines whether reason can answer some big questions: do we actually know anything? if yes: what and how? does human life have any inherent meaning? is there a god? do i have a free will? are there absolute moral goods and evils? is there a right way for human beings to live? specific topics may include: "black mirror and philosophy," "the force of reason," philosophy and science fiction." degree requirements f2i phil 110 philosophy, politics, and economics term: fall credits: 4 this is the introductory course for the political economy major, but we welcome all students. the political economy program explores the relationships between ways of organizing political life (e.g., aristocracy, pure democracy, liberal democracy) and ways of organizing economic life (e.g., free-market capitalism, socialism, communism). how do economic systems advance or frustrate the goals of political orders? the right goals of a political and economic order, however, cannot be determined without exploring an array of philosophical questions: what is justice? what is the best way of life for human beings? is economic prosperity necessary to that way of life? how can political and economic orders manage the conflicts between individual selfishness and common goods? are human beings equal? in what ways should we be equal and free? what do we owe ourselves and what do we owe others? to what degree ought we to obey a government? we will then delve into contentious public policy problems (e.g., the distribution of wealth, income inequality, aﬃrmative action, immigration, sexual discrimination), each of which poses moral, political, and economic questions. in general, our goal will be to think honestly and precisely about the quandaries of social, political, and economic life. this course is open to first-year students, sophomores, and those with permission of the instructor. /uni00a0 degree requirements f2i f8 phil 200 critical reasoning term: fall credits: 4 the central aim of this course is to help you to reason better when deciding what to believe and what to do. this course provides the tools you need, drawing from several areas: cognitive psychology, behavioral economics, logic, probability, and decision theory. we will consider empirical evidence about heuristics and biases—spontaneous judgments that can be predictably irrational. and we will study what good deductive, causal, and probabilistic reasoning looks like. at the end of the course, students should be able to identify common cognitive pitfalls and to master techniques that help them avoid these pitfalls or mitigate their eﬀects. in this sense, the goal of the course is entirely practical: to develop eﬀective reasoning skills with clear applications in your personal and professional lives. the course is open to students from all areas of study interested in improving their reasoning ability and their ability to construct and recognize compelling arguments. these skills may be helpful in a wide variety of subjects and extra-academic pursuits. but since proper reasoning is the centerpiece of philosophy, students intending to major or minor in philosophy must take this course. degree requirements f6 phil 201 ancient philosophy term: fall credits: 4 this course examines pre-socratic, platonic, aristotelian, and hellenistic contributions to western philosophy, with some emphasis on philosophy of science and ethics. we examine a broad range of philosophical topics including: nature, knowledge, virtue, and happiness. there will be a strong emphasis on analyzing the arguments found in the texts. oﬀered yearly. degree requirements f1 phil 203 modern philosophy term: spring credits: 4 an examination of major representatives of modern philosophy, focusing on the works of descartes, hume, and kant. issues to be considered include such things as the nature and role of rationality, the relation of the sensuous and the rational, the exercise of freedom, and the existence of god. oﬀered yearly. phil 210 logic term: spring, fall credits: 4 reasoning and argument are pervasive features of human life. for instance, people are constantly trying to persuade you to adopt certain positions or beliefs; they will often attempt to do so by means of argument or reasoning. but what makes for good reasoning? this course is intended to introduce students to principles and methods of good reasoning, with an emphasis on the analysis of everyday arguments. students will develop the ability to uncover the logical structure of ordinary language; to recognize, represent, and assess everyday statements and arguments; to work competently within formal logical systems; and to construct clear and cogent arguments of their own. oﬀered yearly. /uni00a0 degree requirements f6 phil 216 philosophy of law term: fall credits: 4 this course addresses puzzling questions of agency and responsibility arising from legal norms and principles. what’s the diﬀerence between justifying and excusing a killing? does the law of self-defense discriminate against women? does mental illness negate responsibility or should the insanity defense be abolished? what is the distinction between act and intention? attempted crimes are punished less severely than completed ones: do unsuccessful criminals deserve leniency because of circumstances beyond their control? should ignorance of the law sometimes be an excuse? can committing a crime sometimes be the right thing to do? what is the purpose of punishment? /uni00a0 phil 219 foundations of artificial intelligence term: spring credits: 4 this course introduces students to the interdisciplinary field of artificial intelligence. the course is broken into four modules. the first centers on the question “can machines think?”. it introduces students to the philosophical debate about the nature of mental phenomena---culminating with the view that mental states are fundamentally computational. the second module focuses on the question of “what is a computer?” and introduces students to the central concepts of computer science. here, students learn, e.g., the diﬀerence between formal systems, finite state automata, and turing machines. the third module addresses the question of “how do artificially intelligent systems work?” it looks at the design of such systems and at how search techniques enable them to navigate their environments. the last module asks the question “how do artificial systems relate to the brain?” it explores the intersections between ai and neuroscience, such as the design and application of artificial neural nets and deep learning. phil 220 philosophy of race and racism term: fall credits: 4 in this course, students enter contemporary philosophical debates about race and racism. they will explore questions such as: 1) what is race? do races exist, or are races properly defined a mere fiction? if race doesn’t exist, should we retain the concept of race, or does conserving race exacerbate racism? 2) how does racism operate today? is individual racism best understood as fundamentally a matter of beliefs, attitudes, or behaviors? how best to combat racism? many of our discussions will be anchored in contemporary racial politics. issues to be addressed include: white privilege, colorblindness, implicit racial bias, race and the prison system, and more. educational studies, political economy, africana studies elective. oﬀered every other year. phil 221 money, markets, and morals term: spring credits: 4 this course explores a host of issues at the intersection of philosophy, politics, and economics, especially issues concerning wealth and its relation to human flourishing. among the questions we’ll consider are: what is capitalism? what are the pros and cons of organizing our economic lives that way? what is socialism? what are its pros and cons? what is exploitation and when (if ever) are workers exploited? what is private property and is there any moral justification for it? how is wealth created? is there anything unjust about wealthy inequality? if so, what role (if any) should the government play in bringing about wealthy equality? what is the proper aim (or aims) of businesses: profits? benefitting employees? benefiting the local community? alleviating poverty? if all of those, which takes precedence when those aims conflict? what should be for sale and what shouldn’t? for example, should we be allowed to sell our organs, or drugs, or our sexual services? what constitutes ethical pay? for example, are ceos making five hundred times their employees paid too much? should there be a minimum wage? if so, why and what should it be? if not, why not? finally, are there any standard market practices that are morally oﬀ limits such as price- gouging, sweatshops, or the factory farming of animals? phil 222 ethics term: fall credits: 4 this course will introduce students to classic and contemporary debates within ethics--the study of how we ought to live. some of the questions we'll consider include: what makes a life worth living? what is happiness and how can i reliably achieve it? what is a good person and how can i reliably become one? which acts are right, which are wrong, and what makes them right or wrong? is there really any such thing as rightness and wrongness after all or is all this ethics stuﬀ just made up? if there is such a thing as rightness or wrongness, what does its existence depend on: god, my culture, nothing at all? and why should i care about morality anyway when ignoring its demands helps me achieve my goals? by the end of the course, students will have acquired some of the main tools necessary for grappling with these questions (and questions like them), and they’ll be encouraged to defend their conclusions with reasons and arguments. degree requirements f1 phil 225 justice, equality, and liberty term: spring, fall credits: 4 drawing primarily on contemporary sources in politics, philosophy and economics, this course examines rival visions of the good society. we will analyze competing conceptions of justice and the ways in which those views are modified by commitments to liberty and equality. thematic questions will include: what do human beings owe to one another? how is personal responsibility related to social responsibility? what are the causes and consequences of wealth and poverty? what is the character of freedom? what does equality require? how should rights and duties be properly understood? a good portion of the course will be devoted to the intellectual and moral foundations of the free society and to critiques of the assumption that the good society is “the free society.” the course will include public lecture, debates and conversations with visiting political theorists, economists, entrepreneurs and public oﬃcials. /uni00a0 phil 230 environmental ethics term: spring credits: 4 this course introduces students to philosophical debates in environmental ethics. we will explore questions such as: what aspects of the non-human world are morally considerable? are trees or ecosystems just as morally considerable as sentient animals? if so, how should we adjudicate between competing moral claims in the natural world? do high-emitting nations have a greater moral obligation to mitigate the eﬀects of climate change than poorer nations? are we morally obligated to consider the impact our current environmental behavior will have on future humans? topics to be studied include anthropocentrism, animal welfare, the moral status of nature, population growth, climate change, feminist and anti-racist approaches to environmental justice, and more. oﬀered every other year. phil 240 philosophy of religion term: spring credits: 4 in this course, we’ll consider a range of philosophical questions about western religion and religious belief. among them are: what are the best arguments that god exists? what are the best arguments that he doesn’t? what is faith? can it ever be rational to have faith? lots of religions claim to be authenticated by miracles. can we rationally believe that any of them really happened? if there is a god, why does he allow so much suﬀering? and why doesn’t he reveal himself to people who sincerely want to know him? if, however, there is no god, then where did the universe come from? and why does the universe seem fine-tuned to support intelligent life like us (just as we’d expect if god exists and cares for us)? what role (if any) would god play in making our lives meaningful? and given all the disagreement about religion among very smart, well-informed, sincere people, are we really justified in being confident that our own view about religious matters (e.g., theist, atheist, agnostic) is correct? /uni00a0 /uni00a0 phil 250 topics in philosophy term: spring, fall credits: 4 a seminar in which topics of current interest are presented and discussed. topics may involve both classical and contemporary philosophical texts. typically, topics focus on issues that raise significant moral questions in contemporary society. degree requirements f1 phil 301 philosophy, power, and politics term: spring, fall credits: 4 in an attempt to make sense of our political interests, we often use shorthand. that is, we identify with a group of like-minded individuals who seem to share at least some of our interests--examples of these ideologies include, but are not limited to, liberalism, conservatism, communitarianism, libertarianism, capitalism, socialism, communism, marxism, feminism, anarchism, environmentalism, and anti-racism. in this course, we examine some of the modern ideologies—organized and related sets of ideas about politics that support and modify each other helping to forge political alliances and social movements. each of these ideologies posits a certain account of human nature, the good life, the proper balance between freedom and equality, the nature of power, the evidence of prosperity, and the role of government. each of these ideologies, and those individuals who espouse them, promise to make the lives of their constituents better than they are in the present. these ideologies are premised on tradeoﬀs, preferences, and diﬀering accounts of human flourishing. students who have completed pols 214 may not enroll in phil 301. /uni00a0 phil 311 philosophy of language term: spring credits: 4 the philosophy of language attempts to understand the nature of language and its relationship to speakers, their thoughts, and the world. in this introductory course in the philosophy of language students examine views on the nature of meaning, reference, truth, the relationship between language and our speech acts, and the role language plays in our thought. (course oﬀered intermittently.) phil 315 philosophy of science term: spring credits: 4 in philosophy of science (and nature) we will examine key questions and central issues in the diﬀerent ways we can develop knowledge about the world: what is science? what is nature? what is knowledge?/uni00a0 how ought we to evaluate the veracity of our knowledge?/uni00a0 what are the implications of diﬀerent approaches to the ways in which we understand our status as human beings, the natural world, and the relationships between humans and nature? we will consider the historical development of what we have come to understand as modern science and contemporary debates in the philosophy of science. /uni00a0 /uni00a0 phil 318 metaphysics term: fall credits: 4 metaphysics includes a vast range of topics and issues—from the nature of time and numbers to the constitution of material objects. in this course, we will focus on three central, related issues. first, the dispute between realists and nominalists regarding universals: do similar things share something in common that explains their similarity? second, possible worlds: when i say, “i could have been killed!” what makes that statement true? and third, the dispute between realists and anti-realists: can we accurately divide nature, or mind-independent reality, at its “joints”? are there any such “joints” in the first place? we’ll consider not only how the realism/antirealism debate applies to natural kinds like water and tigers, but also to social kinds like race, gender, and sexuality. along the way, we’ll look at some feminist views regarding how metaphysics may (and should) be concerned with the ways in which our views about reality either sustain or challenge oppression. phil 319 epistemology term: fall credits: 4 epistemology seeks answers to questions like: what is knowledge? where does it come from? when am i justified in believing something? what makes my beliefs rational? do i have rights or duties to believe certain things and not others? how are people harmed in their capacity to know? this course looks at several debates in contemporary epistemology, but does not presuppose any exposure to the relevant literature. phil 320 the ethics of artificial intelligence term: spring credits: 4 ai technology has the potential to dwarf the impact of other revolutionary technologies such as the printing press, electricity, antibiotics, and the internet. but ai is developing so quickly that there has been little time to reflect on the nature, scope, and (dis)value of that impact. this has given rise to a host of pressing moral questions that we are only beginning to consider (let alone answer). in this class, we'll consider some of those questions. among them are these: how might ai transform the world for unimaginable good? how might it pose an existential threat, and what can we do to mitigate it? should governments attempt to regulate the development of ai, and if so, how? can ai make moral judgments? if so, what moral judgments should we program them to make? and how do we avoid programming our own biases and moral failings into them? could ai become conscious, and if so, what (if any) moral obligations might this impose on humans? for instance, can ai have rights, interests, or welfare? could i merge with a superintelligent ai, becoming superintelligent myself? what would that even mean, and would it be morally ok for me to do it? could i befriend, fall in love with, or even have sex with, an ai? if so, should i? will ai lead to mass unemployment, and if so, what should be done for those who are left jobless? how might ai be used by militaries, governments, employers, and others with interests in surveillance and what (if any) moral obligations might this impose on those with the technology? finally, how can ai be used to capture our attention and engagement and what obligations (if any) do we have to resist such attempts? degree requirements f8 phil 321 philosophy and religion term: fall credits: 4 philosophy and religion—reason and faith—have always been at odds. we could begin with job’s argument with god about the justice behind his torments and god’s preemptory response. more directly, socrates was condemned to death, in part, because he did not believe in the gods of athens. in this course, we will examine how philosophers have approached (or avoided) the idea of a deity and particularly of the providential deity of revealed religions. among the readings will be plato, st. thomas aquinas, rene descartes, john locke, david hume, and friedrich nietzsche. phil 322 medical ethics term: spring credits: 4 an examination of issues concerning the practice of medicine, the application of medical technology, and the business of health care delivery that have significant implications for an understanding of the good life and/or moral duties and obligations. (course oﬀered every other year.) phil 325 ethics of identity term: fall credits: 4 this course introduces students to philosophical debate on identity. what is identity? what makes an identity ‘mine' to claim? what or who should determine the answer to this question? today’s political climate is rife with tension over such questions. from gender to race to culture to religion, what it takes to be a ‘good and proper’ member of a given identity is constantly and anxiously debated. student inquiry will focus especially on membership criteria for a given identity. what should determine whether one counts as a member of a given identity category, such as a given sex, gender, or race? how much weight should be placed on natural features (e.g., biological traits), social features (e.g., treatment by one's larger society), or personal features (e.g., self-identification or narrative experience)? students will be introduced to influential philosophical writing on these topics, while paying particular attention to recent work in the metaphysics of race and gender. this course is open to all students - in and outside of philosophy. phil 328 philosophy of mind and consciousness term: fall credits: 4 an examination of the nature, powers, and limitations of the human mind, as well as its relationship to the body. these issues will be investigated through key works in the history of philosophy as well as various contemporary works in philosophy and/or related fields (e.g., biology, psychology). (course oﬀered in alternate years; scheduled for 2019-2020.) phil 333 existentialism term: fall credits: 4 an examination of prominent existentialists from the 19th and 20th centuries. issues include the idea that human beings’ deepest desire is for meaning in their lives, and that the primary issue in human life is whether and how we own up to this. (course oﬀered in alternate years.) degree requirements f1 phil 345 modern political philosophy term: fall credits: 4 where, according to the moderns, did classical political philosophy go wrong in their understanding of nature, of human nature, of justice, of civic virtue, of the purpose of political order, of the best political order? why was a new beginning necessary? following that new beginning, modern political philosophy is a series of radical critiques of previous modern thinkers. in dispute are questions about equality, liberty, political legitimacy, democracy, and ultimately, whether reason is capable of solving such moral and political puzzles definitively. among the readings in the course will be works by niccolo machiavelli, john locke, david hume, and friedrich nietzsche. /uni00a0 phil 355 feminist philosophy term: spring credits: 4 this course introduces students to debates in feminist philosophy with a particular focus on contemporary theory. students will learn that feminism is best understood not as a unified theory but a field of ongoing contestations. throughout the course, students will wrestle with the following questions: what is oppression? who is accurately characterized as an ‘oppressed’ subject? what are sexism and misogyny? can privileged men be victims of sexism too? how best to define the categories ‘male’ or ‘female,’ ‘woman’ or ‘man’? how should genderqueer, intersex and transgender identities inform our answer to this question? topics to be discussed include: sex, gender, gender identity, oppression, sexism, misogyny, adaptive preferences and more. oﬀered every other year; contributes to gss minor. /uni00a0 phil 399 tutorial for honors candidates term: spring credits: 1 junior philosophy majors wishing to read for honors are required to enroll in this preparatory tutorial. although required for honors, enrollment in this course does not guarantee acceptance into the honors program. phil 401 advanced topics term: spring, fall credits: 4 an advanced study of specific philosophical topics. the course may focus on a central philosophical figure (e.g. kant), a specific period (e.g. medieval), a major movement (e.g. empiricism), or a specific theme (e.g. procreation). recent 401 courses include the ethics of captivity and the ethics of identity. oﬀered intermittently. phil 475 problems in philosophy term: spring, fall credits: 4 a tutorial course for senior or junior students. each student chooses an individual topic in consultation with the departmental faculty. phil 476 problems in philosophy term: spring, fall credits: 4 a tutorial course for senior or junior students. each student chooses an individual topic in consultation with the departmental faculty. phil 486 senior seminar term: spring credits: 4 senior seminar is designed as a capstone experience in philosophy, requiring both oral and written work. the seminar culminates in the senior paper, a sustained, sophisticated discussion of a significant philosophical issue. phil 495 honors tutorial term: fall credits: 4 a course dedicated to the development of an honors essay. phil 496 honors tutorial term: spring credits: 4 a course dedicated to the development of an honors essay. phys 101 astronomy credits: 3 an introduction to modern astronomy, including the celestial sphere; solar system planets and exoplanets; stellar classification and evolution; galaxies; and cosmology. must be taken concurrently with astronomy laboratory linked corequisite: phys 102 astronomy laboratory degree requirements f7 phys 102 astronomy laboratory credits: 1 observations of the moon, planets, stars, and nebulae,using the naked eye and telescopes./uni00a0 familiarity with small telescopes./uni00a0 laboratory exercises (computer-based and hands-on) involving astronomical data and concepts when the weather is poor. must be taken concurrently with astronomy. /uni00a0 linked corequisite: phys 101 astronomy degree requirements f7 phys 105 physics of sound and music term: spring, fall credits: 4 an introduction for non-science majors to the physics of sound with applications to sound production by musical instruments. topics include the physical behavior of sound, musical scales, human perception of sound, and sound production by acoustic instruments. as part of the course, students are required to fabricate and demonstrate a musical instrument of their own design. the course and its integrated laboratory are normally scheduled for two consecutive class periods. degree requirements f7 phys 107 introductory topics in physics term: spring, fall credits: 4 topics, designed for the non-science major, in physics, astronomy, and interdisciplinary subjects, including modern developments in physics and closely allied fields, atmospheric processes, nanotechnology, biophysics, geophysics, and science writing. degree requirements f7 phys 109 introductory physics for the life sciences i term: fall, summer credits: 3 suitable for life science students, this algebra-based physics course is the first in a year-long sequence covering the classical fields of physics. topics include newtonian mechanics, including rotational motion, and wave motion. prerequisite: knowledge of algebra and trigonometry. corequisite: phys 113 successful completion of phys 109 and phys 113 required to satisfy f7 degree requirements f7 phys 110 introductory physics for the life sciences ii term: spring, summer credits: 3 suitable for life science students, this algebra-based physics course is the second in a year-long sequence covering the classical fields of physics. topics include thermodynamics, electromagnetism, and the optical properties of matter. prerequisite: phys 109 or phys 111 corequisite: physics 114 successful completion of phys 110 and phys 114 required to satisfy f7 /uni00a0 degree requirements f7 prerequisites introductory physics for the life sciences i introductory physics for the physical sciences i phys 111 introductory physics for the physical sciences i term: fall credits: 3 suitable for both science and non-science majors, this calculus-based course is the first in a year- long sequence covering the classical fields of physics. topics include newtonian mechanics, including rotational motion, and wave motion. prerequisite or corequisite: math 112 or equivalent. corequisites: phys 113 successful completion of phys 111 and phys 113 required to satisfy f6 and f7. degree requirements f6 f7 phys 112 introductory physics for physical sciences ii term: spring credits: 3 suitable for both science and non-science majors, this calculus-based course is the second in a year-long sequence covering the classical fields of physics. topics include thermodynamics, electromagnetism, and optical properties of matter. must be taken concurrently with physics 114l./uni00a0 prerequisite or corequisite: math 122 or equivalent corequisite: phys 114 successful completion of phys 112 and phys 114 required to satisfy f6 and f7. degree requirements f6 f7 prerequisites introductory physics for the physical sciences i phys 113 introductory physics laboratory i term: fall credits: 1 basic experiments in topics covered in the introductory physics courses. includes extensive use of computer-based data collection and analysis. must be taken concurrently with physics 109 or 111. successful completion of phys 109 and phys 113 required to satisfy f7 successful completion of phys 111 and phys 113 required to satisfy f6 and f7 /uni00a0 degree requirements f6 f7 phys 114 introductory physics laboratory ii term: spring credits: 1 basic experiments in topics covered in the introductory physics courses. includes extensive use of computer-based data collection and analysis. must be taken concurrently with physics 110 or 112. successful completion of phys 110 and phys 114 required to satisfy f7 successful completion of phys 112 and phys 114 required to satisfy f6 and f7 /uni00a0 /uni00a0 degree requirements f7 phys 205 observational astronomy term: spring credits: 4 a practical introduction to the methods and techniques of modern observational astronomy. students will describe the empirical properties of celestial objects; articulate how telescopes and cameras work; use small telescopes to take data; analyze astronomical data; and interact with modern astronomical databases. phys 207 intermediate topics in physics term: spring credits: 1-4 special topics in physics for students who have completed the introductory physics sequence of courses (phys 111-112 or phys 109-110). (course oﬀered as interest warrants.) /uni00a0 prerequisites introductory physics for the life sciences ii introductory physics for physical sciences ii phys 211 modern physics term: fall credits: 4 a survey of relativistic and quantum physics, including topics selected from: special relativity, photons, the atom, matter waves, introductory quantum mechanics,/uni00a0nuclear properties and processes, elementary particles, molecules,/uni00a0condensed matter, and cosmology. prerequisites introductory physics for physical sciences ii integral calculus phys 213 intermediate laboratory term: fall credits: 1 the application of advanced experimental techniques to the exploration of 20th century physics concepts. includes measurements of fundamental constants, properties of electrons, atomic energy levels, atomic and nuclear scattering, etc. prerequisites introductory physics laboratory i introductory physics laboratory ii phys 215 physics in medicine term: fall credits: 4 our understanding of physics has driven the advancement of technology used to diagnose and treat disease since the beginning of the 20th century. this course covers these technologies and the underlying physics. these technologies include, but are not limited to, x-rays, computed tomography (ct), magnetic resonance imaging (mri), positron emission tomography (pet), radiation therapy, and ultrasound. we will also discuss, among other background topics, how x- rays, gamma rays, and sound waves are produced and the eﬀects of radiation on matter and the body. prerequisite: phys 110 or phys 112 phys 220 engineering fabrication term: spring credits: 2 this course provides students an opportunity to develop basic skills in machining and fabrication. students will learn proper safety procedures and the use of machine and hand tools, and newer fabrication techniques such as three-dimensional printing and laser cutting. topics include but are not limited to: measurement, material selection, machining, threading, forging, joining, computer- aided design. prerequisites introductory physics laboratory ii phys 250 mathematical methods of physics term: spring credits: 4 a survey of analytical and numerical techniques useful in physics, including topics selected from: multivariable calculus, optimization, ordinary and partial diﬀerential equations, complex numbers, special functions, linear algebra, probability, fourier series, fourier and laplace transforms, and numerical methods. /uni00a0 prerequisites introductory physics for physical sciences ii integral calculus multivariable calculus phys 260 the science of climate change term: spring credits: 4 the earth’s climate is a complex system with many components, including the atmosphere, ocean, land, and the creatures that inhabit these spaces. this course will address the science behind climate change. specific topics will include: forcings and feedbacks; the greenhouse eﬀect; radiation transfer and global energy balance; atmospheric and ocean circulation; ice-climate interactions; global climate models; renewable energy; and geoengineering. /uni00a0 prerequisites: phys 110 or 112, and phys 114 /uni00a0 phys 301 electromagnetic theory term: fall credits: 4 a study of the fundamental properties of electric and magnetic fields in vacuum. (course oﬀered in fall semester of odd numbered years.) prerequisites introductory physics for physical sciences ii mathematical methods of physics phys 302 advanced electromagnetic theory term: spring credits: 4 a study of static and dynamic electromagnetic fields in matter, electromagnetic waves, and radiation; also, a brief introduction to relativistic electrodynamics. (course oﬀered as interest warrants.) prerequisites electromagnetic theory phys 304 electronics term: spring, fall credits: 4 the basic concepts of analog and digital electronics with weekly laboratory exercises. ac and dc topics make use of phasor and complex algebra notation. digital topics include diodes, transistors, operational amplifiers, and integrated circuits, making use of boolean algebra and logic. (course oﬀered as interest warrants.) pre-requisites: phys 110 or 112, and phys 114 phys 305 dynamics term: fall credits: 4 basic principles of the dynamics of particles and rigid bodies presented within the framework of classical mechanics. topics include newtonian mechanics, oscillating systems, general motion of a particle in three dimensions, mechanics of rigid bodies, and an introduction to lagrangian and hamiltonian mechanics. (course oﬀered in fall semester of even numbered years.) prerequisites introductory physics for physical sciences ii mathematical methods of physics phys 307 advanced topics in physics term: spring, fall credits: 4 topics for the intermediate-level physics- or natural-science student, often including but not limited to subjects such as nuclear physics, robotics, medical physics,/uni00a0statics and mechanics of solids, fluid mechanics. (course oﬀered as interest warrants.) prerequisites modern physics phys 310 astrophysics term: spring, fall credits: 4 an introduction to modern astrophysics. this course will normally include the following: a brief introduction to the celestial sphere and astronomy terminology; stellar structure and evolution; structure and evolution of galaxies; and cosmology. (course oﬀered as interest warrants.) prerequisites modern physics phys 325 optics term: spring, fall credits: 4 a study of contemporary physical optics, including diﬀraction theory (fraunhofer and fresnel), polarization, coherence theory and lasers, fourier and nonlinear optics. (course oﬀered as interest warrants.) prerequisites modern physics mathematical methods of physics phys 401 quantum mechanics term: spring credits: 4 introduction to topics in quantum physics, including observables and measurement, position and momentum representations, wave mechanics, the time-dependent schrödinger equation, hilbert space vectors and operators, the hamiltonian, potential wells and the harmonic operator, introduction to dirac notation, scattering theory, the hydrogen atom, angular momentum, and spin./uni00a0(course oﬀered spring semester of even numbered years.) prerequisites modern physics mathematical methods of physics phys 406 thermal physics term: spring credits: 4 the study of thermodynamics and statistical mechanics from the unifying viewpoint of quantum theory. topics include: gibbs and boltzmann factors; fermi-dirac and bose-einstein distribution functions; temperature, pressure, and the monatomic ideal gas; thermodynamic potentials. application of theory to metals, white dwarf stars, photons, and phonons will be considered. (course oﬀered spring semester of odd numbered years.) prerequisites modern physics mathematical methods of physics phys 451 research in physics term: fall credits: 1-4 experimental or theoretical work of an advanced nature, carried out independently by the student with a faculty mentor. projects can be selected from a variety of topics involving or designed by the student in consultation with the faculty mentor. phys 452 research in physics term: spring credits: 1-4 experimental or theoretical work of an advanced nature, carried out independently by the student with a faculty mentor. projects can be selected from a variety of topics involving or designed by the student in consultation with the faculty mentor. phys 486 senior seminar term: spring credits: 2 examination of the unifying themes, central concepts, and links between discipline areas of physics through the preparation and presentation of research seminars, discussions of ethical issues in science, and reviews of current physics literature. open to senior physics majors only. phys 495 honors tutorial term: fall credits: 4 open to candidates for honors in physics. a minimum of 4 credits per semester must be earned in the senior year to fulfill college honors requirements. a minimum cumulative and major gpa of 3.5 is required at the time of application for honors and upon graduation. students should familiarize themselves with college and departmental honors procedures before enrolling. phys 496 honors tutorial term: fall credits: 4 open to candidates for honors in physics. a minimum of 4 credits per semester must be earned in the senior year to fulfill college honors requirements. a minimum cumulative and major gpa of 3.5 is required at the time of application for honors and upon graduation. students should familiarize themselves with college and departmental honors procedures before enrolling. psyc 105 special topics in psychology term: spring, fall credits: 4 this course is designed for the non-psychology major and will examine a diﬀerent general-interest topic each time it is taught. students will be exposed to the five major theoretical perspectives and to research methods as they pertain to a thematic topic such as ‘close relationships,’ ‘psychology of the self,’ ‘drugs, brain, and behavior,’ etc. degree requirements f2 f8 psyc 150 introduction to psychological science term: spring, fall credits: 4 this course will cover major content domains in the discipline of psychology, including biological, cognitive, developmental, social and personality, and mental health. in addition, themes that are relevant to all of these domains and that link content areas will be discussed, with emphasis on ethics and cultural/social diversity. this course is also intended to foster an appreciation of the role of scientific reasoning in understanding human behavior and the mind. students will be introduced to the major theoretical perspectives and to the basic principles of psychological research methods. degree requirements f8 psyc 200 research methods and statistics term: spring, fall credits: 4 students will be taught critical thinking and scientific reasoning skills. topics include: philosophy of science and the scientific method, measurement theory (reliability and validity), the basics of research design (control variables, rival hypotheses, and confoundings), and elementary statistical analysis./uni00a0 prerequisites introduction to psychological science psyc 211 statistical methods term: spring, fall credits: 4 statistical methods are an integral part of social sciences, particularly psychology, as they provide the tools that are needed to reveal patterns in complex behavior. students will develop an appreciation of the role of statistics and knowledge of the major tests that demonstrate diﬀerences and relationships. math 111 cannot be substituted for this course. degree requirements f6 prerequisites introduction to psychological science psyc 216 perception and sensation term: spring, fall credits: 4 a survey of theories and research concerning sensation and perception focusing on how we construct an internal representation of the external world from the evidence of our senses. prerequisites introduction to psychological science psyc 218 psychology of addiction term: spring credits: 4 through an analysis of primary research, personal narratives, media depictions and therapeutic protocols, students will learn the biological, behavioral, cognitive, and sociocultural factors leading to addictive behaviors. through a health equity lens, and an emphasis on project-based learning, the course will use addiction to highlight disparities in health status, treatment access, and outcomes across racial, ethnic and socioeconomic groups. /uni00a0 prerequisites introduction to psychological science psyc 220 psychology of health term: spring, fall credits: 4 traditional western conceptualization of health divides our experiences into physical and mental - body and mind, and also into wellness and illness. yet many other cultures understand health very diﬀerently. increasingly, western models of health care aim to approach health from a more integrated and culturally competent model. this is in response to recognition that current leading causes of mortality (such as substance abuse, overeating, unprotected sex, and suicide) are driven by psycho-social factors. it is also increasingly seen as necessary in order to develop health interventions that serve culturally diverse populations. this course will give students access to critical knowledge in the burgeoning field of health psychology, which aims to address these issues. course material will cover basic theory, research, and intervention methods in the field, integrating content from biology, psychology, sociology, and anthropology. based on this knowledge, students will create proposals for health psychology interventions in their area of interest, empowering them with the skills necessary to be leaders of progress in the areas of health and wellness. health psychology is a broad and upcoming field important for those interested in public health, medicine, and psychology. prerequisites introduction to psychological science psyc 222 educational psychology term: spring, fall credits: 4 theories and research on human learning and teaching, especially in educational settings. this course will cover the current theories of teaching and learning processes from a variety of perspectives, with emphasis placed on applications of research to practice and policy. cognitive processes, individual diﬀerences, strategies for instruction, motivation, critical thinking, and self- regulation of learning will be stressed. /uni00a0 prerequisites introduction to psychological science foundations of education psyc 224 psychological disorders term: spring, fall credits: 4 the phenomenology, etiology, and treatment of the major forms of psychological disorders, including schizophrenia, mood disorders, anxiety disorders, and personality disorders. we will evaluate theories and research concerning these disorders from psychobiological, behavioral, cognitive, sociocultural, and psychodynamic perspectives./uni00a0 prerequisites introduction to psychological science psyc 229 developmental psychology: infancy and childhood term: spring, fall credits: 4 a study of developmental principles, focusing on research relevant to prenatal development, infancy, and childhood. theories of emotional, cognitive, and social development will be examined. students will consider the implications of developmental research for social and educational policy that aﬀects the welfare of children. f11 sections include a 10-hour community-based learning requirement. pre-requisite: psychology 150 or education 201 degree requirements f11 psyc 230 adolescent and early adult development term: spring, fall credits: 4 theories and research on adolescent and early adult development will be applied to educational and social policy issues pertaining to identity work and the accomplishment of other developmental tasks typically undertaken during the teens and twenties. /uni00a0 pre-requisite: psychology 150 or education 201 psyc 231 psychology of aging term: fall credits: 4 this course will explore how cognition, emotion, social relations, and mental health change with healthy aging, and to a lesser extent, pathological aging. major theories and research findings in these areas will be discussed and applied to the everyday functioning of this growing segment of our population. /uni00a0 degree requirements f11 prerequisites introduction to psychological science psyc 232 psychology of gender and language term: spring, fall credits: 4 students will consider research and theory on the ways that gender is established and enacted in language structures and in discourse practices. we will critically examine research on gender diﬀerences in language use and we will play with linguistic forms and speaking styles that seem to be gendered in some cultural communities. students will collect data on their own and their classmates’ speech habits and will endeavor to develop discourse skills that allow them to be intentional about appropriating and resisting gender norms, as the situation demands. psyc 240 psychology of race and social class: a cross-cultural comparison term: maymester credits: 4 coupled with a 3-week study abroad experience in johannesburg and cape town, south africa, students will examine topics of prejudice and discrimination, principally regarding race, ethnicity, and social class, and how these social constructions diﬀer cross-culturally./uni00a0 prior to traveling to south africa, students will examine social psychological theories relating individual and institutional practices of prejudice and discriminariton, as well as conceptualizations and operationalizations of race and social class./uni00a0 we will articulate similarities and diﬀerences in the historical development of race relations within the two countries./uni00a0 while in country, students will participate in class meetings (allowing continued development as we read, discuss, and reflect), visit historical and cultural sites, attend guest lectures by south african academics, and interact with south africans. degree requirements f9 psyc 241 health and mental health disparities in an international context: the case of thailand term: maymester credits: 4 this course presents students with an opportunity to learn about contemporary issues, problems, and controversies in global health and mental health through a 28-day immersive study abroad experience in thailand. students will be able to further their cross-cultural and critical thinking skills and learn how to engage and work ethically in a complex tapestry of social, economic, political, and environmental determinants of health. a psychosocial model of health will be explored while comparing western/eastern perspectives, urban/rural locations, and majority/underserved populations (gender, socioeconomic, race, age, disability, etc.). students will observe the interaction between health systems and public policy in developing/emerging global economy areas, and explore the role of thai, international, private sector, and non-government-organizations in addressing health and mental health needs. while on site visits, students will learn about eastern and thai perspectives on mental health and health, including traditional and non-traditional approaches to treatment and health. through these site visits, students will also have the opportunity to focus on particular global health issues like integrated models of health; traﬃcking of humans, illegal substances, and arms; refugees and migration; communicable diseases; hiv/aids prevention and treatment; safe water and food access; the impact of climate change; and the emergence of wellness and medical tourism. degree requirements f9 f11 psyc 280 psychology of gender and sexuality term: fall credits: 4 this course will examine the ways in which human experiences are shaped by gender and sexuality. we will explore psychological connections with such topics as gender identity and expression, gender stereotypes, transgender experiences, human sexuality, and sexual orientation. this course will emphasize health equity, including how gender and sexual orientation relate with health outcomes, as well as the role of psychology in addressing gender and sexual orientation-related health disparities. prerequisites introduction to psychological science introduction to gender and sexuality studies psyc 306 psycholinguistics term: spring, fall credits: 4 a discussion of recent theory and research on human language. topics to be covered include language development, the relationship between language and thought, and the relationship between language and culture. non-psychology majors with a special interest in language or theatre are welcomed in this course. prerequisites introduction to psychological science psyc 311 counseling psychology credits: 4 this course will survey the theories and techniques used by counseling psychologists in their work with clients. the course will draw on therapeutic outcomes research literature to discuss and practice skills that are necessary for helping relationships. we will discuss the ways that various schools of thought within counseling psychology have used the counseling skills and the evidence base for such applications. we will also discuss the variety of elements that influence the application of those skills (e.g. cultural and ethnic/racial diversity, family, and social context). prerequisites introduction to psychological science psyc 315 industrial-organizational psychology term: spring credits: 4 this course will provide students with a broad introduction to the field of industrial-organizational (i-o) psychology. through readings, discussions, activities, and a final project students will learn to: define the field of i-o psychology and explain some of the ways i-o psychologists contribute to organizations; critically evaluate i-o related readings; apply i-o knowledge and theories to workplace contexts; and prepare and present presentation materials in a professional manner. /uni00a0 prerequisites: psyc 211 or econ 290 or math 211 psyc 318 clinical neuroscience term: fall credits: 4 a critical examination of the neurobiological mechanisms of mental illness. current biobehavioral perspectives of potential causes and treatments of psychological disorders such as schizophrenia, eating disorders, drug abuse, depression, and obsessive-compulsive disorder are considered. an emphasis is placed on the interaction of nature and nurture (e.g. stress) contributing to both vulnerability and resilience to mental illness. pre-requisite: neur 270 or psyc 200 psyc 323 social psychology term: spring, fall credits: 4 study of social behavior, including such topics as interpersonal attraction, altruism, aggression, conformity, group dynamics, intergroup conflict and negotiation, attitude change, person perception, social dilemmas, and social cognition. /uni00a0 psyc 324 evidence-based therapies term: spring, fall credits: 4 this course is a survey of the empirical development, implementation, and dissemination of current practices of psychotherapy. in particular, the course will utilize scientific knowledge to answer the question, “for whom does this psychological intervention work, and under what conditions?” the importance of multicultural contributions and competencies will also be emphasized throughout the course. case conceptualization skills will be learned and practiced, using dsm-5 diagnoses to inform selection and implementation of an indicated evidence-based therapy./uni00a0 prerequisites introduction to psychological science psychological disorders psyc 326 learning and motivation term: spring, fall credits: 4 this course will cover theories of learning and motivation. emphasis will be placed on individual diﬀerences and underlying cognitive processes involved in learning, as well as behavioral and social cognitive perspectives of learning, and on the theories and influences on motivation to learn. we will also cover the science of studying learning and motivation, and application of the material, including to students’ own learning and motivation within and outside of the classroom. prerequisites introduction to psychological science statistical methods psyc 327 cognitive processes term: spring, fall credits: 4 this course is an in-depth exploration of human cognitive abilities, including perceptual processes, attention, memory, language, and thinking. in addition to providing an overall understanding of these topics, this course examines the research methodology and theoretical frameworks used to study cognitive processes, how these processes can be applied to everyday life, and current issues in the field of cognitive psychology. psyc 330 community psychology term: spring, fall credits: 4 this course provides an introduction to community psychology, focusing on historical foundations, theory, methods, and practice. in this course, students will learn about the basic theories and concepts that define community psychology while becoming familiar with examples of eﬀective community action and research. students will have the opportunity to examine the potential relevance of community psychology for addressing social problems. degree requirements f11 prerequisites introduction to psychological science introduction to urban studies psyc 338 psychological assessment term: spring, fall credits: 4 psychometric principles of test construction and issues of reliability and validity of contemporary psychological tests will be covered. students will learn accepted practices and critical issues in the administration and interpretation of psychological tests. degree requirements f11 prerequisites statistical methods psyc 344 movement neuroscience with lab term: fall credits: 4, 1 the nervous system is remarkable in its ability to learn, plan and control movements. using a comparative approach from insects to humans, we will explore the neuroscience principles that underlie rhythmic movement, sensory-motor reflexes, motor learning, and brain-machine interfaces. in the complementary lab portion of the course we will use lego robots to learn computational neuroscience techniques. other lab projects will focus on biosignals, human motor learning and kinematic analysis. motor disorders such as stroke, amputation, parkinson’s and other diseases will be emphasized, as well as the corresponding approaches to neurorehabilitation. prerequisite: psychology 150 or biology 140/141 psyc 345 cognitive neuroscience with lab term: fall credits: 4, 1 this course examines how structure and function of the brain give rise to cognitive processes. we will explore the major cognitive systems, including object recognition, attention, memory, language, emotion, social cognition, and executive function, and learn about the cutting-edge technologies being employed to study these processes. in the lab portion of this course, students will be exposed to an array of techniques used in cognitive neuroscience research. lab activities include a trip to lebonheur children’s hospital to observe transcranial magnetic stimulation, analysis of magneto encephalography data, and collection of electro encephalogram recordings. various methodological and analytical approaches will be explored first-hand so that students are familiarized with the broad spectrum of approaches used in modern neuroscience. psyc 350 randomized experimental research term: spring, fall credits: 4 students will conduct a laboratory or field research experiment on human participants. note: must be taken by the end of the junior year. /uni00a0 prerequisites statistical methods research methods and statistics psyc 351 program evaluation/intervention/participatory action research term: spring, fall credits: 4 students will gain experience in program evaluation, intervention research, or participatory action research./uni00a0note: must be taken by the end of the junior year. psychology 250 is strongly recommended prior to enrolling in this course. prerequisites research methods and statistics statistical methods psyc 352 observational/qualitative/interpretive research term: spring, fall credits: 4 students will collect and/or analyze qualitative and/or observational research data. note: must be taken by the end of the junior year. prerequisites research methods and statistics statistical methods psyc 353 survey research term: spring credits: 4 students will collect and/or analyze survey research. note: must be taken by the end of the junior year. prerequisites research methods and statistics statistical methods psyc 399 junior seminar term: spring credits: 1 a survey of contemporary research on selected topics, to be taken in preparation for honors research. open only to junior psychology majors. psyc 408 advanced topics in psychology term: spring, fall credits: 2-4 an issue of current interest and importance in psychology will be explored in depth. topics will be announced each time the course is oﬀered. psyc 451 research practicum term: fall credits: 1-4 - psyc 452 research practicum term: spring credits: 1-4 - psyc 460 internship in psychology term: spring, fall credits: 4-8 supervised experience in applying psychological knowledge and principles in a real-world setting for junior and senior psychology majors. students prepare a research paper or a literature review on a topic related to the internship, work on a project with the oﬀ-campus supervisor, and keep a journal. only 4 internship credits may count towards the major. this is a pass/fail course. degree requirements f11 psyc 485 senior seminar term: spring, fall credits: 4 psychology majors are required to enroll in senior seminar during the senior year. senior seminar is intended to be a capstone experience in psychology, requiring both oral and written work. psyc 495 honors tutorial term: fall credits: 4 maximum of 12 hours credit. for students accepted into the honors program of the department to do independent research. psyc 496 honors tutorial term: spring credits: 4 maximum of 12 hours credit. for students accepted into the honors program of the department to do independent research. psyc 522 educational psychology term: fall credits: 2 this course focuses on theories and research on human learning and teaching, especially in educational settings. this course will cover the current theories of teaching and learning processes from a variety of perspectives, with emphasis placed on applications of research to practice and policy. cognitive processes, individual diﬀerences, strategies for instruction (including with special needs students), motivation, critical thinking, and self-regulation of learning will be stressed. psyc 529 infant and child development term: fall credits: 2 a study of developmental principles, focusing on research relevant to prenatal development, infancy, and childhood. theories of emotional, cognitive, and personality development will be examined. candidates will consider the implications of developmental research for social and educational policy that aﬀects the welfare of children./uni00a0 special emphasis will be given to implications for work in urban elementary classrooms. psyc 530 adolescent psychology term: fall credits: 2 theories and research on adolescent and early adult development will be applied to educational and social policy issues pertaining to identity work and the accomplishment of other developmental tasks typically undertaken during the teens and twenties./uni00a0 special emphasis is given to implications for work in both middle and high school settings. rels 101 the bible: texts and contexts term: fall credits: 4 the first in a two-course sequence of selected topics/uni00a0that enables students to develop critical knowledge of biblical texts and post-biblical traditions by helping them understand how these works and their histories of reception/uni00a0inform interpretive contexts./uni00a0students will acquire skills in critical thinking, analysis, reading, and writing that will equip them to recognize the relevance of the academic study of biblical texts and religion. selected works from the biblical writings and aﬃliated literature will be discussed within the framework of topics that will allow students to explore their own and others’ operative assumptions about meaning and values. religious studies 101-102 is a prerequisite for 200-level courses in the religious studies department. humanities 101-102 can substitute for this prerequisite. degree requirements f1 rels 102 the bible: texts and contexts term: spring credits: 4 this is the second of a/uni00a0two-course sequence of selected topics enables students to develop critical knowledge of biblical texts and post-biblical traditions by helping them understand how these works and their histories of reception inform interpretive contexts. students will acquire skills in critical thinking, analysis, reading, and writing that will equip them to recognize the relevance of the academic study of biblical texts and religion. selected works from the biblical writings and aﬃliated literature will be discussed within the framework of topics that will allow students to explore their own and others’ operative assumptions about meaning and values. religious studies 101-102 is a prerequisite for 200-level courses in the religious studies department. humanities 101-102 can substitute for this prerequisite. degree requirements f1 f2 prerequisites the bible: texts and contexts rels 210 history of christian thought term: spring, fall credits: 4 the faith of the earliest new testament communities will be examined, and developments in biblical theology from the early church onward will be considered. degree requirements f1 prerequisites the bible: texts and contexts rels 211 contemporary theology term: spring, fall credits: 4 a survey of the major issues and figures in theology in the twentieth and twenty-first centuries. the course focuses on the special challenges to theology posed by the modern world. degree requirements f1 prerequisites the bible: texts and contexts rels 214 early christian literature term: spring, fall credits: 4 a study of selections from the early greek fathers (e.g., clement of rome, ignatius of antioch, and the epistle of barnabas) whose writings extend the biblical tradition into the second century ce and mark a formative stage in the development of christian creed and canon. degree requirements f1 prerequisites the bible: texts and contexts rels 220 topics in theology term: spring, fall credits: 4 an in-depth study of a particular problem, topic, or perspective in modern theology. degree requirements f1 prerequisites the bible: texts and contexts rels 231 faith, health and justice credits: 4 community-integrative course that examines the complex relationships between race and social class, access to health care, religious faith, and health outcomes. students will serve in placements that allow them to study faith-based community agencies that aim to promote health equity and to redress health disparities in memphis. through a combination of careful analysis of common reading assignments, presentations of papers, reflection on experiences in the site placements, and guided discussion, we aim to understand the root conditions that produce health disparities and to evaluate proposals for promoting health equity./uni00a0 degree requirements f1 rels 232 social issues in ethical and religious perspective term: spring, fall credits: 4 this course examines selected social issues in theological, ethical and biblical perspective. topics include holocaust, religion and the bible, religion and racism, and religion and sexuality. degree requirements f1 prerequisites the bible: texts and contexts rels 233 pain, suﬀering, and death term: spring, fall credits: 4 a seminar that examines critical issues and problems of crisis experience involving pain, suﬀering, and death using various disciplinary perspectives and pedagogical methods, including interviews with health care professionals. designed primarily for students considering health or human service vocations (e.g., medical professions, counseling, social work, ministry), but also of interest to others. degree requirements f1 f11 prerequisites the bible: texts and contexts rels 251 religion in america term: spring, fall credits: 4 a historical analysis of american religion, examining the diversity of religions in america through the study of selected beliefs, practices, and institutions. degree requirements f1 f3 prerequisites the bible: texts and contexts rels 253 judaism term: fall credits: 4 a survey of the history of the jewish people and its formative experiences, the sources of judaism as a religious tradition, its distinctive ideas and values, and what it means to be a jew today. degree requirements f1 prerequisites the bible: texts and contexts rels 255 living religions in today's world term: fall credits: 4 a survey of the major living religions in the modern world. the course will consider both the rise of the classic traditions and the shape that their followers are giving them today. religions to be considered may include hinduism, buddhism, chinese religion, japanese religion, and islam. degree requirements f1 f9 prerequisites the bible: texts and contexts rels 256 methods and theories of the study of religion term: spring, fall credits: 4 an introduction to the phenomenological, sociological, anthropological, and psychological approaches to the academic study of religions. this course reviews the methodologies and theories of foundational thinkers in the modern study of religions. students learn to apply the ideas of these theorists in field studies of local religious phenomena. degree requirements f1 prerequisites the bible: texts and contexts rels 258 topics in the history of religions term: spring, fall credits: 4 an exploration of a specific tradition or subject in the history of religions. subjects include islam, african-american religion, women in american religion, and women in world religions. degree requirements f1 prerequisites the bible: texts and contexts rels 259 topics in the history of christianity term: spring, fall credits: 4 this course will consider selected aspects in the common era history of communities of biblical faith and practice. topics include catholicism and reformation. degree requirements f1 prerequisites the bible: texts and contexts rels 260 archaeology and the biblical world term: spring, fall credits: 4 a detailed study of the major archaeological finds from the biblical period and their impact on biblical interpretation. the course uses the material evidence of archaeology to reconstruct ancient life, customs, and cultural influences in the biblical lands and then compares this portrait with those presented in the biblical texts. depending upon the expertise of the instructor, the course may focus on lands and finds associated with the hebrew bible/old testament or those associated with the new testament. familiarity with general biblical history is presumed. degree requirements f1 prerequisites the bible: texts and contexts rels 270 introduction to the hebrew bible/old testament term: spring credits: 4 permission of the instructor is required for students who wish to enroll in a 200-level course prior to completing the rels 101 and 102 sequence. degree requirements f1 prerequisites the bible: texts and contexts rels 271 pentateuch term: spring credits: 4 permission of the instructor is required for students who wish to enroll in a 200-level course prior to completing the rels 101 and 102 sequence. degree requirements f1 prerequisites the bible: texts and contexts rels 272 historical literature term: spring credits: 4 permission of the instructor is required for students who wish to enroll in a 200-level course prior to completing the rels 101 and 102 sequence. degree requirements f1 prerequisites the bible: texts and contexts rels 273 prophets term: spring credits: 4 permission of the instructor is required for students who wish to enroll in a 200-level course prior to completing the rels 101 and 102 sequence. degree requirements f1 prerequisites the bible: texts and contexts rels 274 wisdom literature/psalms term: spring credits: 4 permission of the instructor is required for students who wish to enroll in a 200-level course prior to completing the rels 101 and 102 sequence. degree requirements f1 prerequisites the bible: texts and contexts rels 276 selected topics in hebrew bible/old testament term: fall credits: 4 permission of the instructor is required for students who wish to enroll in a 200-level course prior to completing the rels 101 and 102 sequence. degree requirements f1 prerequisites the bible: texts and contexts rels 277 selected topics in hebrew bible/old testament term: spring, fall credits: 4 permission of the instructor is required for students who wish to enroll in a 200-level course prior to completing the rels 101 and 102 sequence. degree requirements f1 prerequisites the bible: texts and contexts rels 280 introduction to the new testament term: spring credits: 4 permission of the instructor is required for students who wish to enroll in a 200-level course prior to completing the rels 101 and 102 sequence. degree requirements f1 prerequisites the bible: texts and contexts rels 281 synoptic gospels term: spring credits: 4 permission of the instructor is required for students who wish to enroll in a 200-level course prior to completing the rels 101 and 102 sequence. degree requirements f1 prerequisites the bible: texts and contexts rels 282 gospel of john term: spring credits: 4 permission of the instructor is required for students who wish to enroll in a 200-level course prior to completing the rels 101 and 102 sequence. degree requirements f1 prerequisites the bible: texts and contexts rels 283 paul's letters term: spring credits: 4 permission of the instructor is required for students who wish to enroll in a 200-level course prior to completing the rels 101 and 102 sequence. degree requirements f1 prerequisites the bible: texts and contexts rels 285 selected topics in the new testament term: fall credits: 4 permission of the instructor is required for students who wish to enroll in a 200-level course prior to completing the rels 101 and 102 sequence. degree requirements f1 prerequisites the bible: texts and contexts rels 286 selected topics in the new testament term: spring credits: 4 permission of the instructor is required for students who wish to enroll in a 200-level course prior to completing the rels 101 and 102 sequence. degree requirements f1 prerequisites the bible: texts and contexts rels 300 selected topics in religious studies term: fall credits: 4 courses in religious studies at the 300 level and above are not part of the life curriculum and cannot count for life or f1 credit. rels 301 selected topics in religious studies term: spring credits: 4 courses in religious studies at the 300 level and above are not part of the life curriculum and cannot count for life or f1 credit. rels 399 junior honors tutorial term: spring credits: 1 open to junior majors by permission of the instructor only. rels 451 research in religious studies term: fall credits: 1-4 this course involves advanced students in religious studies in collaborative work with faculty on original research projects. rels 452 research in religious studies term: spring credits: 1-4 this course involves advanced students in religious studies in collaborative work with faculty on original research projects. rels 460 health equity internships term: spring, fall credits: 1-4 a supervised learning experience in the community outside the college (e.g., faith-based community health providers, churches, hospitals, or social agencies). in collaboration with methodist healthcare, the nancy hughes morgan program in hospital chaplaincy oﬀers a special internship each spring semester designed for students considering health or human service vocations (e.g., medical professions, counseling, social work, and ministry). in collaboration with several faith-based community health and social service providers, the department oﬀers health equity internship placements that integrate academic work on health disparities with professional experience in agencies working to promote health equity in memphis. the health equity internships focus on the intersection of faith commitments, social justice concerns, and health outcomes for economically and socially marginalized groups in memphis. rels 461 internships term: spring, fall credits: 1-4 all internships that do not fit the description found under religious studies 460 (health equity internships.) rels 485 senior seminar: senior paper term: spring credits: 4 the seminar culminates in the senior paper, a major research project reflecting a semester-long engagement with a significant topic for religious studies. rels 495 honors tutorial term: fall credits: 4 requires permission of the department. rels 496 honors tutorial term: spring credits: 4 requires permission of the department. russ 101 elementary russian term: spring, fall credits: 4 elementary grammar, reading, and conversation, supplemented by materials on russian culture. russ 102 elementary russian term: spring, fall credits: 4 elementary grammar, reading, and conversation, supplemented by materials on russian culture. russ 201 intermediate russian term: spring, fall credits: 4 intermediate grammar and continued training in conversation and composition, supplemented by materials on/uni00a0contemporary developments in russian society./uni00a0 reading of russian texts of graded diﬃculty, intermediate writing. degree requirements f10 prerequisites elementary russian russ 202 intermediate russian term: spring, fall credits: 4 intermediate grammar and continued training in conversation and composition, supplemented by materials on contemporary developments in russian society. reading of russian texts of graded diﬃculty, intermediate writing. prerequisites intermediate russian russ 205 the russian religious mind term: fall credits: 4 this course examines the distinct world-consciousness of russian religious thought, with its emphases on the themes of god, good and evil, the search for divine justice on earth, the material world as sanctified, and the moral content of spiritualized beauty./uni00a0 reading materials will be taken from the religio-philosophical writings of distinguished thinkers, orthodox presentations of major points of dogmatic theology, and monastic wisdom past and present./uni00a0 all works are read in english translation. degree requirements f1 f4 russ 209 russian in russia term: summer credits: 4 a 3-4 week guided encounter with the language and culture aimed at solidifying vocabulary and grammar previously acquired. a significant cultural component is part of the course. takes place in may-june. degree requirements f10 f11 russ 212 prophets, princesses, revolutionaries: 19th century russian voices term: fall credits: 4 reading of representative works by major russian writers of the nineteenth century (including pushkin, pavlova, gogol, goncharov, soboleva, turgenev, tolstoy, and dostoevsky). the literary works include eugene onegin, supernatural tales by gogol, oblomov, the cossacks, notes from underground, and fathers and children. these works will be studied for their individual merit, what they illuminate about nineteenth-century russian society, and their contribution to the rise of the russian novel. all works are read in translation. degree requirements f2i f4 russ 215 giants of russia's silver age: soloviev, blok, and rachmanioﬀ term: spring credits: 4 study of the aesthetic, thematic, and personal connections among three of russia’s towering figures: vladimir soloviev, alexander blok, and sergei rachmaninoﬀ . the course will examine in depth the creative works of the philosopher-poet soloviev, the poet-dramatist blok, and the composer-pianist rachmaninoﬀ (for whom poetry was second only to music). master themes and global concepts linking the three creative artists include the yearning for harmony; exploration of russian orthodox religiosity; elevation of the –eternal feminineî of sophia (the body of god); and connection between beauty and goodness. representative philosophical, poetic, and musical works, respectively, of the three artists will be examined. oﬀered in alternate years. degree requirements f5 f9 russ 255 catherine the great and the enlightenment: the italian-russian connection term: spring, fall credits: 4 in this course students investigate the italian-russian connections in three major areas of cultural production during the reign of catherine the great: music, literature, and architecture. creative thinkers whose works will be studied include bortnyansky, paisiello, casanova, beccaria, rastrelli, and quarenghi. students will learn features of the european and russian enlightenments, study the intricacies of russian court culture, and explore the institution of patronage. the course aims to develop an understanding of crosscultural fertilization and some major diﬀerences between mediterranean and slavic cultures. it is complemented by an optional, though highly recommended, three-week study trip to italy and russia (see russian 256). oﬀered in alternate years. degree requirements f5 f9 russ 256 catherine the great and the italian- russian connection term: summer credits: 0-1 this maymester program examines the musical, literary, and architectural connections between italy and russia during the reign of catherine the great. it takes participants to three cities: rome, milan, and st. petersburg. in rome students will attend lectures at lumsa (university adjacent to the vatican), attend a musical performance at the teatro dell’opera, visit places associated with giacomo casanova, and investigate architectural monuments by italian architects whom catherine attracted to russia. in milan participants will attend an opera at the teatro all scala and visit sites associated with cesare beccaria. in st. petersburg students will attend performances in the great hall of the st. petersburg philharmonic and the mariinsky theatre, and will study major architectural ensembles. takes place in may and june. degree requirements f11 russ 285 putin's russia and the media credits: 4 this course explores a wide array of important media, print, and filmic sources that are underrepresented in western narratives about contemporary russia and its president, vladimir putin./uni00a0 students utilize the study of these materials in order to better understand russia today, and specifically to gain an awareness of how the media can manipulate public opinion. while calling attention to media techniques of bias, the course serves as an entry to contemporary russian culture, providing observers of russia with a fuller understanding of her geopolitical perspectives and vision for the twenty-first century. degree requirements f9 russ 300 dostoevsky term: spring credits: 4 this course explores selected works by dostoevsky in the context of the rise of the russian novel. the course will examine in depth several short works by the writer, as well as the novels the idiot and the brothers karamazov. concentration is on the major literary, philosophical, and religious issues dostoevsky raises in his prose, as well as how these issues better enable us to understand the russian mind. all works are read in translation. oﬀered in alternate years./uni00a0 scheduled for fall 2017. degree requirements f4 f9 russ 301 advanced russian term: spring, fall credits: 4 advanced grammar, with greater emphasis on the refinement of conversation and composition skills. discussion of topics related to contemporary life in russia. prerequisites intermediate russian russ 302 advanced russian term: spring, fall credits: 4 advanced grammar, with greater emphasis on the refinement of conversation and composition skills. discussion of topics related to contemporary life in russia. prerequisites intermediate russian russ 309 russian in russia term: summer credits: 4 a 3-4 week guided encounter with the language and culture aimed at solidifying vocabulary and grammar previously acquired. a significant cultural component is part of the course. takes place in may-june. degree requirements f11 russ 400 russian film: film theory term: spring credits: 4 introduction to the ideological and aesthetic forces that have shaped the development of soviet/russian film, with particular attention to various film theories. films of major directors, such as eisenstein, pudovkin, tarkovsky, kulidzhanov, and sokurov will be studied. all films are subtitled; course is taught in english. (cross-listed with english 382.) oﬀered in alternate years. degree requirements f5 russ 410 analytical reading term: fall credits: 4 this course aims to teach students the strategies of understanding texts of high literary quality by analyzing elements of given texts in their complexity. while focusing mainly on psycho-poetic aspects of reading activity, the course also introduces formal approaches to text analysis, such as identifying the stylistic devices and expressive means employed by the authors. russ 486 senior seminar term: spring credits: 4 students will be assigned individual research topics associated with the essential concept of the russian idea, give weekly progress reports, which will involve analytical discussion, and present their results orally and in writing at the end of the course. special attention will be given to assigned readings from the russian press and from russian literature. russ 495 honors tutorial term: spring, fall credits: 4-8 /uni00a0/uni00a0 russ 496 honors tutorial term: spring, fall credits: 4-8 /uni00a0/uni00a0 span 101 elementary spanish term: fall credits: 4 pronunciation, fundamentals of grammar, composition, and reading of texts of graded diﬃculty. span 102 elementary spanish term: spring, fall credits: 4 pronunciation, fundamentals of grammar, composition, and reading of texts of graded diﬃculty. span 201 intermediate spanish term: spring, fall credits: 4 review and continuation of grammar; composition; training for oral proficiency. reading of modern literary works of spain and spanish america. degree requirements f10 prerequisites elementary spanish span 202 intermediate spanish term: spring, fall credits: 4 review and continuation of grammar; composition; training for oral proficiency. reading of modern literary works of spain and spanish america. prerequisites intermediate spanish span 205 spanish in spain term: summer credits: 4 an intensive study of spanish at estudio sampere, universidad de deusto, or other host institutions. degree requirements f10 f11 prerequisites elementary spanish span 209 spanish in latin america term: maymester credits: 4 an intensive study of spanish at estudio sampere’s cuenca, ecuador location or other host institutions. this course satisfies the proficiency requirement in foreign languages, as well as the foundation requirement for experiential learning beyond the rhodes campus. degree requirements f10 f11 prerequisites elementary spanish span 301 advanced spanish language and culture term: spring, fall credits: 4 a study of rich, complex aspects of the spanish language with emphasis on the four skills of speaking, understanding spoken spanish, writing, and reading. special attention is given to the idiomatic character of the language. each section focuses on a specific field of study, social and cultural context, and/or current event. aural comprehension and oral production are stressed in 301; composition is stressed in 302, a writing intensive course. these courses need not be taken in sequence. while students may take both courses, either one will satisfy a minor/major requirement and act as a prerequisite for more advanced courses. students who have previously taken spanish 305 or spanish 309 have in most cases already gained the competencies stressed in 301 and should enroll in 302 if they need a course at this level. spanish 301 and 302 are intended to be taken early in the minor or major; for this reason senior minors and majors may not enroll in these courses without the instructor's permission. /uni00a0 prerequisites intermediate spanish span 302 advanced spanish language and culture term: spring, fall credits: 4 a study of rich, complex aspects of the spanish language with emphasis on the four skills of speaking, understanding spoken spanish, writing, and reading. special attention is given to the idiomatic character of the language. each section focuses on a specific field of study, social and cultural context, and/or current events. aural comprehension and oral production are stressed in 301; composition is stressed in 302, a writing intensive course. these courses need not be taken in sequence. while students may take both courses, either one will satisfy a minor/major requirement and act as a prerequisite for more advanced courses. students who have previously taken spanish 305 or spanish 309 have in most cases already gained the competencies stressed in 301 and should enroll in 302 if they need a course at this level. spanish 301 and 302 are intended to be taken early in the minor or major; for this reason senior minors and majors may not enroll in these courses without the instructor's permission. /uni00a0 degree requirements f2 teaching/learning elective prerequisites intermediate spanish span 303 survey of peninsular spanish literature term: spring credits: 4 reading and analysis of selected works of peninsular spanish literature from a range of genres. beginning with a brief introduction to spain’s multicultural past, the course will provide students with a panoramic survey of the major periods in spanish cultural and literary history from the 11th through the 21st centuries. emphasis given to the fundamentals of literary research and analysis. ideally, this course should be taken early in the minor/major, shortly after completing 301 or 302. prerequisite: spanish 301 or 302 or 305 or 309 degree requirements f4 span 305 spanish in spain term: maymester credits: 4 a study of the most diﬃcult aspects of the spanish language with emphasis on the four skills of speaking, understanding, writing, and reading. special attention is given to the idiomatic character of the language. the course is oﬀered in conjunction with estudio sampere or universidad de deusto. degree requirements f11 prerequisites intermediate spanish span 306 survey of spanish american literature and cultures term: spring, fall credits: 4 a panoramic overview of literary and cultural movements from the pre-columbian era to the present. emphasis given to the fundamentals of literary research and analysis. ideally, this course should be taken early in the minor/major, shortly after completing 301 or 302. /uni00a0 prerequisite: spanish 301 or 302 or 305 or 309 degree requirements f4 span 307 oral proficiency practicum term: spring credits: 1 discussion of contemporary issues in spanish-speaking communities with emphasis on improving oral proficiency. prerequisite: spanish 301, or 302, or 305, or 309 span 309 spanish in latin america term: maymester credits: 4 a study of the most diﬃcult aspects of the spanish language with emphasis on the four skills of speaking, understanding, writing, and reading. special attention is given to the idiomatic character of the language. text materials deal with civilization and current events. the course is oﬀered in conjunction with estudio sampere (cuenca, ecuador) or ies (buenos aires, argentina). degree requirements f11 prerequisites intermediate spanish span 310 spanish in the u.s. term: fall credits: 4 a course in which students research a range of forms in which the spanish language has been used to express essential features of experience in the territory that now makes up the united states of america. /uni00a0 prerequisite: spanish 301, or 302, or 305, or 309 span 311 lit, cultural humility, and lang in latinx health care credits: 4 this course is designed for students planning to work in the health care field and who want to acquire more skills in medical spanish. we will develop new critical perspectives on health care for latin americans and hispanics in the us through the study of literature, language, and culture. specifically, we will develop medical language skills and cultural competency for health care situations. outside class students will participate as an informal intern and perform a variety of tasks with the shelby county health equity collective. the work will focus on latinx patients and include shadowing an interpreter, filing, other tasks as relevant, etc. (for nursing students, also taking vitals). students will also attend seminars at local non-profits. we will learn about cultural humility, the legalities of medical records, issues of confidentiality, informed consent, and patient privacy/rights. we will also gather information about other programs geared toward the latin american and latinx community. finally, we will learn about the wic (women, infant, children) program, communicable diseases, cultural, and environmental health issues for latinx in the mid- south. degree requirements f9 span 312 sport and games in the hispanophone world term: spring credits: 4 against a backdrop of theoretical readings, this course examines a range of representations of sport and games in literature, journalism, performance, and film. selections from latin america, spain, and the us highlight the ethics, politics, social functions, and language of sport and games. /uni00a0 prerequisites advanced spanish language and culture advanced spanish language and culture spanish in spain spanish in latin america span 315 new theories and praxis in latin america and the latinx world term: spring credits: 4 in recent decades, the region has undergone a process of liberation from assumed principles of knowledge and understanding of how the world is and should be. we have seen a veritable explosion in the production of theories and novel cultural practices in latin america and the latinx world. as each school of thought and praxis emerges, it questions inherited views of the world postulated by its predecessors, and remakes textual and social practices. through discussions of latin american and latinx texts and visual-cultural materials, and engagement with new cultural practices, this course examines multiple ways writers, artists, activists, and critics reimagine the region and propose novel ways to address ongoing cultural and intellectual challenges towards opening up horizons and visions neglected in mainstream culture. prerequisite: spanish 301,302/uni00a0or permission of instructor. degree requirements f9 f11 span 317 colonization and decolonization term: fall credits: 4 our world is the result of more than 500 years of western colonial expansion and imperial designs, and was structured on the basis of unequal power relations between the north (including the north within the south) and the south (including the south within the north). the racial, class, gender, sexual, religious, pedagogical, linguistic, aesthetic, ecological and epistemological power hierarchies that organize knowledge on the basis of epistemic privilege. within this context, non- western traditions of thought are inferiorized and subalternized. this course invites students to explore questions like who is producing knowledge? what institutions and disciplines legitimize it? what is knowledge for and who benefits from it? how is our social existence colonized and how to think about decolonization of being? readings and practices during the semester will engages us to reflect about basic assumptions engrained in the idea of modernity, progress, and development. we will examine notions like the renaissance, the enlightenment, positivism, developmentalism, and related ideas connected to imperial projects in the 20th and 21st centuries. through the study of literature, drama, film, and various radical counter-discursive, indigenous and hybrid artistic practices in latin america and the latinx world, the course fosters thinking and living in community with non-eurocentric social and human values. with opened horizons and visions, we will engage in learning with, and from, the latinx/a/o community in memphis through engaged learning projects./uni00a0 /uni00a0 degree requirements f9 f11 span 318 ecocritical perspectives in latin america and the latinx world term: spring credits: 4 the contemporary ecological crisis urges us to confront the condition of the world around us, to examine the way by which we came to understand the relationship between man and physical space, and to scrutinize the ecological implications of the metaphors that organize it into discrete categories of “culture” and “environment.” the study of texts, art, and activism from marginalized environmental perspectives (indigenous, afro-latinx/e/latin american, women, lgbtqi+ communities) evidences various strands of environmental thought and critique—recognizable today as extractivism, feminisms from the south, eco-feminism, amerindian ontologies, among others—present in diﬀerent forms since the region was envisioned as an edenic “new world” until today. through the study of literature, drama, film, and various radical counter-discursive, indigenous and hybrid artistic practices in latin america and the latinx world, the course fosters thinking and living in community with non-eurocentric social and human values. these vital corpus from latin america and the latinx world will oﬀer the opportunity to explore and reflect about multiple perspectives on environmental justice, law and ecology, and environmental action/engagement. with opened horizons and visions, we will engage in learning with, and from, the latinx/a/o community in memphis through engaged learning projects. /uni00a0 degree requirements f9 prerequisites advanced spanish language and culture advanced spanish language and culture span 320 spanish american drama term: spring, fall credits: 4 a study of the works of spanish american dramatists from the colonial era to the present. prerequisite: spanish 301, or 302, or 305, or 309 degree requirements f5 span 323 space and place, city and nature in the hispanic imagination term: spring credits: 4 this course focuses on how debates about space and place, cities, and nature serve as forums of contemplation and contestation of the political, historical, geographic, and literary foundations of hispanic imaginaries. authors have found in natural and urban landscapes a suggestive literary locus of unrest and ambiguity to problematize and disrupt the physical, metaphysical, and ontological symbolic value ascribed to them by predecessors. writers adopt these changing representations in order to point to paradoxes and contradictions in notions of the colonial, the imperial, the national, the local, and the global. we will dedicate part of the course to contemporary reconsiderations of the relationship between urban life and the natural world taking place in latin america, and conduct engaged research on civic engagement through literature, art, and philosophy, as expressed in cartonera publishing in memphis. degree requirements f9 f11 span 325 minority voices in contemporary spain: old baggage, new arrivals term: spring credits: 4 since the beginning of its transition to democracy, spanish society has undergone cultural, political, and social transformations from which historically marginalized voices have continued to emerge and vie for recognition, acceptance, and authentic representation. this course introduces students to the developing situation of minority groups as perceivers and the perceived within contemporary spanish society. more specifically, through a literary, journalistic, and cinematic lens, the course prioritizes, not only the historical and contemporary factors that have shaped behaviors, perceptions, and attitudes toward minorities, but also the lens through which minority groups see and perceive their own experiences. within the context of spain, we will explore experiences based on linguistic and cultural diversity within catalonia, basque country, galicia, andalusia as well as experiences and representations of other minority and marginalized groups, such as african, latin american, romani, and lgtbqia communities living in spain. degree requirements f9 span 328 the black experience in the spanish speaking world term: spring credits: 4 through a conscientious review of the literary and cultural productions of afro-descendant writers in the spanish-speaking world, this course provides students with the fundamental knowledge and/uni00a0principles required to recognize and appreciate manifestations of black expression in the context of resistance and agency. students are presented a historical and cultural framework with which/uni00a0to critically analyze, interpret, and engage enduring questions and ideas concerning the racialized lived experiences of black individuals in the literature, cinema, and popular culture produced by/uni00a0spanish speakers of african descent in latin america, equatorial guinea, spain, and the united states. prerequisite: span 301 or span 302 span 330 spanish american poetry term: spring, fall credits: 4 a study of the major movements and representatives of spanish american poetry, from pre- columbian era to the present. prerequisite: spanish 301, or 302, or 305, or 309 span 340 colonial and global visions in spanish american literature term: fall credits: 4 the course focuses on the visual, literary, and cartographic production of the pre-hispanic world and spanish american colonial culture and the re-imagination of the period in the last century. some topics include: inca and mesoamerican maps, codices, and graﬃti; contrasting narratives of conquest; the earliest elaboration of global worlds; the debate on the nature of amerindians and early notions of human rights; imperial discourses; gender and race; and satire and humor. authors include pre- hispanic poets and mapmakers, cristobal colón, hernán cortés, fernando de ixtlilxóchitl, bartolomé de las casas, álvar núñez cabeza de vaca, inca garcilaso de la vega, sor juana inés de la cruz, carlos sigüenza y góngora, and juan de valle caviedes among others. movies and contemporary texts on the colonial past will serve to the study of the modern reception of this cultural production. prerequisite: spanish 301 or 302 or 305 or 309 degree requirements f9 span 350 fiction by spanish women writers term: fall credits: 4 this course aims to raise and examine issues associated with women’s literary expression through the study of works by some of the most prominent spanish writers of the last two centuries. questions of marginality (as related to gender, language and culture), female sexuality and creativity, and the challenge of writing under the watchful eye of state censors will be addressed. prerequisite: spanish 301 or 302 or 305 or 309 span 355 medieval and early modern women writers term: spring, fall credits: 4 the primary focus is on women writers from the middle ages to the end of the seventeenth century. it explores how women writers inthe hispanic world, such as florencia pinar, teresa de jesús, catalina de erauso, juana inés de la cruz, and maría de zayas, negotiate gender construction and its impositions through literature. for these women, literary production becomes the site of gender-related political resistance, and in some instances, gender redefinition or what could be called a hispanic proto-feminism. the course deals with a variety of literary genres, such as poetry, short novel, theatre, autobiography, and letters, as well as some oral tradition. prerequisite: spanish 301 or 302 or 305 or 309 span 360 genders in spanish american literature term: spring, fall credits: 4 a study of gender in works by women and men writers. topical units composed of texts representing various genres, regions, and periods. prerequisite: spanish 301 or 302 or 305 or 309 span 365 special topics in spanish term: spring, fall credits: 4 emphasis on a particular genre or the literature of a specific hispanic nation. prerequisite; spanish 301, or 302, or 305, or 309 span 370 contemporary southern cone literature term: fall credits: 4 a study of contemporary southern cone literature including short stories, novels, theatre, poetry, and essays. prerequisite: spanish 301 or 302 or 305 or 309 span 375 contemporary central american literatures term: spring, fall credits: 4 a study of major central american fiction, poetry, drama, and essays. particular attention to works published after 1950, although some selections from before 1950 may be included to develop understandings of cultural, literary, and socio-historical contexts. prerequisite: spanish 301 or 302 or 305 or 309 span 395 medieval iberian cultures term: spring, fall credits: 4 the medieval iberian peninsula was famously home to a variety of cultural communities, defined not only by their religion (muslims, christians, or jews) but also by their place of origin, their relationship to majority culture, or their social origin and occupation. this course examines medieval iberian cultural communities and their contentious and collaborative relationships to one another, primarily through the lens of their written cultural production (such as literature or historiography), but also taking into account other cultural manifestations such as art, music, textiles, etc. in a given semester, the class may focus on one specific community, issue, or genre. prerequisite: any of the following: 301, 302, 305, 309 span 399 juniors honor tutorial term:/uni00a0spring credits:/uni00a01 permission of instructor required. /uni00a0 span 404 contemporary mexican literature and visual arts term: spring credits: 4 from the visión de los vencidos to alfonso reyes’s visión de anáhuac, mexican literature has shared its space and maintains a constant dialogue/friction with other types of cultural representation. focusing on the interplay of four diﬀerent types of art (photography, painting, literature and film) we will examine in this course five key moments for mexican literary production and visual arts, from the mexican revolution to the present. writers such as rulfo and poniatowska, muralistas like orozco and rivera, photographers such as ituribide and lópez, and filmmakers from buñuel to cuarón will help us in examining and reframing the most common issues of mexican cultural studies, such as cultural identity and the remaking of the indigenous past; cultural hybridization; the creation of the modern mexican nation; race, class, sexuality and gender relations; and immigration/border issues with the us. prerequisites: spanish 301, 301, 305, 309 or permission of the instructor degree requirements f5 f9 span 405 the literature of mexico after 1911 term: fall credits: 4 a study of major mexican writers of the 20th and 21st centuries. may include works by juan rulfo, rosario castellanos, elena garro, carlos fuentes, octavio paz, and carlos monsiváis. spanish 301 or 302 or 305 or 309 span 406 the contemporary novel of spanish america term: fall credits: 4 a study of major novelists since 1950. may include works by alejo carpentier, roberto bolaño, mario vargas llosa, cristina peri rossi, and gabriel garcía márquez. prerequisite: spanish 301 or 302 or 305 or 309 span 408 the spanish american short story term: fall credits: 4 a study of spanish american short story writers. may include works by jorge luis borges, augusto monterroso, luisa valenzuela, julio cortázar, and horacio quiroga. prerequisite:spanish 301 or 302 or 305 or 309 span 410 modern spain: from enlightenment to realism term: spring, fall credits: 4 this course aims to give the student an overview of the literary development of spain during the 18th and 19th centuries. emphasis is given to the main cultural and literary movements: enlightenment, romanticism and realism. prerequisite: spanish 301 or 302 or 305 or 309 span 411 the fantastic in spain: pushing the limits term: fall credits: 4 although sometimes dismissed as mere escapism, fantastic and gothic narrative can also be read as an exposure of what lies beneath the surface, revealing social, cultural and artistic anxieties. this course will introduce students to the study of fantastic and gothic elements in peninsular spanish literature of the 19th century through the present day. an introduction to theories and critical assessments of the fantastic and gothic in literary texts will guide our readings and inform our analyses of how fantasy can challenge and subvert dominant notions of what is natural, real or normal, thereby pushing the limits of artistic and social conventions and opening new spaces for the expression of imagination and experience. prerequisites: span 301 or 302 or 305 or 309 span 412 twentieth-century spain: the artist and society term: spring, fall credits: 4 this course aims to study some of the most important authors and literary works of what has been called spain’s “silver age” at the beginning of the 20th century. two key moments in spanish history serve as bookends for the readings: the “disaster” of 1898 and the spanish civil war of 1936-1939. we’ll begin the course by studying representative works of authors included in the so- called generation of 98, the first of the important literary and artistic generations of the 20th century. when we read the poetry of the generation of 27, we’ll see the tension between their recognition of the importance of their immediate predecessors and new tendencies toward more avant-garde aesthetic concerns and poetic practices. the connections between literary art, cubism and surrealism will also be explored. since the course is cross-listed with the gender and sexuality studies program, we’ll approach literary works through the lens of gender analysis, focusing specifically on constructions of masculinity, femininity and queer identities, the connection between gender and genre, and the voicing of diﬀerence. the course’s readings include many works and authors recognized within the canon of great works in spanish literature, but we will also read many works by authors traditionally excluded from the canon, with the aim of exploring the possible reasons and motives for their exclusion. prerequisite: any of the following spanish 301, 302, 305, 309 span 413 twentieth-century spain:ghosts of the spanish civil war term: spring, fall credits: 4 this course aims to study spanish literature published during the years following the spanish civil war of 1936-9 to the present, with a particular focus on identity viewed through the lens of gender studies. in reading works produced during the franco dictatorship, we’ll see the impact of state censorship on artistic production, and we’ll trace the eﬀects of the regime’s promotion of traditional configurations and expressions of gender in selected literary texts and films. in works published following franco’s death in 1975, we will explore how art and literature provide opportunities for a certain coming to grips with the historical memory of four decades of dictatorship. all readings, discussions and writing assignments will be in spanish. prerequisite: any of the following spanish 301, 302, 305, 309 span 414 cinema of spain term: spring, fall credits: 4 this course oﬀers an in-depth look at some of the main films, genres, directors, and styles of spanish cinema in the specific context of spanish culture and history, as well as of wider european and world film history. in addition, it introduces students to key terms and concepts of cinematic analysis and film theory. in a given semester, the course may focus on a specific filmmaker, genre, or period. prerequisite: spanish 301 or 302 or 305 or 309 degree requirements f5 span 421 the golden age in spain term: spring, fall credits: 4 this course focuses on 16th- and 17th-century poetry and prose. may include works by quevedo, góngora, garcilaso de la vega, cervantes, zayas, teresa de jesús, and juan de la cruz. prerequisite: spanish 301 or 302 or 305 or 309 span 423 hispanic golden age theatre term: spring, fall credits: 4 this course will study major playwrights of the golden age such as lope de vega, pedro calderón de la barca, tirso de molina, maría de zayas, juana inés de la cruz and juan ruiz de alarcón, amongmany others. written and staged between the end of the 16th and the end of the 17th centuries—a period known for its literary and artistic activity both in the new world and spain— these plays are important because of their themes, audience and treatment of critical issues such as gender definition, national identity, and conflicts of class. prerequisite: spanish 301 or 302 or 305 or 309 span 424 exploring don quijote term: spring, fall credits: 4 this course aims to familiarize students with miguel de cervantes’s masterpiece, considered one of the classics of 17th-century spanish literature. questions of readership, authorship, and narrative, among others, will be examined. prerequisite: spanish 301 or 302 or 305 or 309 span 426 imperial discourses of the hispanic world term: spring, fall credits: 4 the sixteenth and seventeenth centuries witnessed the rise of one of the earliest global powers in the western modern world: the spanish empire. this course examines the notion of spanish empire as it is expressed in the literary production of the times, and how this aﬀects its consideration in the following centuries and up until today. challenging the metageographies that inform the study of the field, we will adopt a transatlantic framework to promote comparisons, and explore interactions, between texts that are conventionally labeled as separate creations of latin american vs. peninsular literature. using our framework, we seek to fashion a more complex panorama and achieve a deeper understanding of the discourses behind this early global phenomenon. readings include mesoamerican poetry and the descriptions of the earliest conquistadors; histories of the incas and moriscos in the peninsula; contemporary short stories and their filmic representations among others. through the study of these works we will inquire into concepts like nation, race, identity, empire and their role on the elaboration of the hispanic imaginary. prerequisite: spanish 301 or 302 or 305 or 309 degree requirements f9 span 486 senior seminar term: spring credits: 4 an overview of major topics of hispanic literatures and cultures. emphasis is given to the process of conceiving and developing a substantial library of research, and to the elaboration of a major research paper and a formal academic presentation based upon the essay. span 495 honors tutorial term: fall credits: 4-8 /uni00a0/uni00a0 span 496 honors tutorial term: spring credits: 4-8 /uni00a0/uni00a0 urbn 120 introduction to memphis for bonner/day scholars term: spring credits: 1 this course, which is currently open only to first-year bonner and day scholars, oﬀers an opportunity to discuss the ongoing challenges and opportunities to rhodes students doing engagement work in the city of memphis. the class has three interlocking goals: 1) provide an introduction to historical and contemporary topics in the memphis area; 2) oﬀer opportunities for students to reflect on the first year of their work on campus and in the community and to enrich that work throughout their rhodes career 3) explore connections for between the work of bonner and day scholars in memphis and their other academic interests. in weekly meetings, students will examine and explore these topics through a variety of activities. urbn 201 introduction to urban studies term: spring, fall credits: 4 this course provides an introduction to the interdisciplinary field of urban studies. it focuses on the strengths, issues, and problems of contemporary cities and the people who live and work in urban areas. it provides frameworks for examining how cities are sustained and change over time. while drawing on examples of cities in the u.s. and around the world, this course takes advantage of rhodes college’s location and the knowledge of local stakeholders, emphasizing memphis as an urban case study. this course is not open to seniors. /uni00a0 degree requirements f8 f11 urbn 220 social statistics term: fall credits: 4 an introductory statistics course that covers descriptive statistics, the foundation of inferential statistics, and inferential analysis. students will analyze social data, specifically related to urban issues, attitudes, and policies, using calculators and computer software. this class will also equip students with the tools for program assessment. this course aims to increase students understanding of statistical concepts through the lens of the urban environment. /uni00a0 degree requirements f6 urbn 230 urban geography term: spring, fall credits: 4 this course examines the history of urbanization from a geographic perspective. this entails an analysis of the historical development of cities and an investigation of the spatial theories utilized to understand the causes of urbanization and its impacts on everyday life. the course begins with a discussion of key concepts such as industrialization, urban political-economy, suburbanization, and the ghetto/inner city. the course then focuses on four inter-related urban processes: working in the city, governing the city, living in the city, and urban social movements. this course begins to tell a more complete story of the urban form and the way in which this mode of life continues to alter human institutions and social relations well beyond the boundaries of the city. degree requirements f2i f8 urbn 235 principals of public health term: fall credits: 4 this course focuses on public health principles and concepts. it will provide a framework for understanding public health’s role in community health, prevention, and medicine. using the five core public health knowledge areas and the ten essential public health services as a basis, students will examine public health infrastructure, surveillance, social determinants of health, policy, and emerging issues./uni00a0 in addition, the course will weave public health areas such as chronic disease, infectious disease, environmental health, maternal and child health, and injury into discussions and assignments. urbn 240 introduction to urban and community health term: spring, fall credits: 4 this course focuses on the production of health inequalities and the policy interventions proposed to reduce them, with an emphasis on us cities and memphis. the course begins by examining the concept of health and its key social determinants. the remainder of the course focuses on applying these conceptual foundations to evaluate community health policies, including access to health care, obesity, gun violence, and environmental health. it uses memphis as a case study through which to understand many of the challenges of urban health, as well as the potential policy interventions. degree requirements f8 urbn 250 intercultural knowledge and competence credits: 4 this course focuses on helping students acquire the knowledge, attitudes, and skills necessary to interact eﬀectively in diverse cultural contexts. multiple pedagogical strategies are used to foster student growth including: (1) exposing students to interdisciplinary scholarship that contextualizes the experiences of people from diverse cultural backgrounds, (2) requiring students to continually reflect on how their own cultural identities have influenced their values, beliefs, and worldviews, and (3) providing multiple opportunities for students to practice and enhance their intercultural competence skills. although the course focuses primarily on the experiences of diverse cultural groups within the us, the skills learned should be transferable across multiple contexts. degree requirements f9 urbn 262 music and community in memphis term: spring, fall credits: 2 in the course, students will join the mike curb institute for music to explore and understand the richness and complexity of memphis through research and study, refection, and real-world experience. theories and best practices of community integrative education will be studied and applied to tangible projects though the unifying theme of music and community. students will come to this class from multiple backgrounds (music, film, art, urban studies, history, english, business, computer science, etc.) that will inform a variety of projects related to recording, marketing, entrepreneurship, music outreach and education, research, preservation, design, or performance. they will meet together to discuss and reflect on how their experiences in the class connect with what they have learned in other classes, and how their projects connect to each other and the city of memphis. students will also explore and reflect on how experiences like these shape their outlook on urban spaces and the role of the arts in these spaces. urbn 265 special topics term: spring, fall credits: 4 study of selected topics in urban studies. varies with instructor. may be repeated for credit when topics vary. urbn 270 black communities and law enforcement term: fall credits: 4 this course explores how law enforcement in the united states was designed to unjustly surveil, suppress, and oppress black bodies. we will interrogate the mythical origins of policing, explore the role of violence in state-sanctioned law enforcement, and study the variegated ways that police oﬃcers violate the humanity of particular groups of people. /uni00a0 urbn 320 globalization and cities term: fall credits: 4 globalization and cities will take you on a trip to various cities around the world. this course will provide a global perspective of cities and an urban perspective of globalization. through this course we will learn the ongoing demographic, cultural, social, political, and environmental transformations and challenges during the process of urbanization in the world. we will also examine the roles of cities in both producing and consuming globalization as well as the interrelationship between globalization and localization. /uni00a0 degree requirements f8 f9 urbn 340 nonprofits in the city: health, community, and the voluntary spirit term: spring credits: 4 nonprofits have always performed an important role in the production and maintenance of healthy cities. from early settlement houses, soup kitchens, garden clubs and dispensaries to present day community development organizations, charter schools, hospitals and afterschool programs, nonprofits provide much of the social, political, and economic infrastructure that allow urban residents to live healthy and productive lives. this course utilizes a political-economic perspective to examine the history of urban nonprofits in the united states. it explores the legal frameworks and financing that allow nonprofits to serve the community as well as the wide variety of services nonprofits provide. it concludes with an assessment of the nonprofit environment in memphis prerequisites introduction to urban studies urban politics and policy urbn 345 urban political economy term: fall credits: 4 urban political economy urbn 350 community development & action term: fall credits: 4 this class is designed to give students an active role in impacting memphis neighborhoods through the lenses of equity and justice. we will begin with a historical overview of neighborhood change across america, analyzing the key policies and local decisions that led memphis’ neighborhoods to look the way they do today. students will then learn the contemporary challenges facing urban neighborhoods using a specific community project or initiative as a case study. students will gather available neighborhood data, community feedback, and national best practices centered around implementing an equitable approach to the specific neighborhood revitalization project. the course is divided into three parts. part i: the evolution of neighborhoods and the impact of key housing and economic development policy at the local and national level for many predominantly african-american neighborhoods part ii: the historical and modern context of the neighborhood will be discussed. specifically, focusing on how the same national policy and divestment dynamics played out in this memphis neighborhood; an analysis of modern geospatial neighborhood data and other public data to establish a baseline for the holistic health of the neighborhood today part iii: the class will work in partnership with a specified community partner, to help design and implement the specific plan; students will be responsible for a specific aspect of the project; class will culminate with a presentation of key deliverables to the residents of the neighborhood. prerequisites introduction to urban studies urbn 362 urban field research term: spring credits: 4 this course provides the opportunity for students to integrate academic understandings, research skills, and community based learning. students, faculty, and community partners design and conduct field research addressing an urban challenge or issue. degree requirements f11 urbn 365 advanced seminar on special topics term: spring, fall credits: 4 advanced study of selected topics in urban studies. varies with instructor. may be repeated for credit when topics vary. urbn 382 music and community in memphis term: fall credits: 2 in the course, students will join the mike curb institute for music to explore and understand the richness and complexity of the urban setting of memphis through research, refection, and real-world experience. theories and best practices of community integrative education will be studied and applied to tangible projects though the unifying theme of music and community. this class will be taught simultaneously with urbn 262, with students in urbn 362 working as student leaders and mentors for the projects. students will work to develop and reflect on their own personal leadership skills and thoughts on becoming engaged citizens. prerequisites music and community in memphis urbn 385 senior research design term: fall credits: 4 this course will examine methods for conducting interdisciplinary research in urban studies and health equity. students will link substantive research questions to appropriate research methods, including both qualitative and quantitative approaches. students will also develop a research proposal for their capstone project, which will be completed in the senior seminar and will represent their signature work in urban studies or health equity. urbn 451 research practicum in urban studies term: spring, fall credits: 1-4 students will work on a research project under the close supervision of a faculty member. only 4 practicum credits may count toward the major. this is a pass/fail course. urbn 452 research practicum in urban studies term: spring, fall credits: 1-4 students will work on a research project under the close supervision of a faculty member. only 4 practicum credits may count toward the major. this is a pass/fail course. urbn 460 urban studies internship term: spring, fall credits: 4 a directed internship with an urban, social, governmental, or nonprofit agency. the courses integrate traditional academic work in urban studies with practical internship experience. degree requirements f11 urbn 485 senior seminar in urban studies term: spring credits: 4 an investigation of subject areas in the discipline of urban studies that involves research collaboration between students and faculty. urbn 535 social contexts of urban schools term: fall credits: 4 this course is an investigation into the contexts of work in urban schools./uni00a0 focusing on community assets and resources, theories of the ways schools are embedded in communities, and the many social and political contexts that impact life and work in urban schools, teacher candidates will gain a broader conception of the ‘urban’ and the many influences on urban students both in school and outside of school. astd 150 themes in asian studies term: spring, fall credits: 4 this introductory course examines the historical and cultural experiences of various peoples of asia through a thematic approach. the course takes a comparative approach to a particular topic that reflects important forces that have had an impact throughout asia. by examining a broad theme that has had resonance throughout asia, the student will develop an appreciation for the complexity and diversity of asian cultures while at the same time exploring common forces that have shaped those cultures. such themes could include the development of buddhism in asia, comparative approaches to asian theatre, and the history of asian societies’ experiences with western political and economic expansionism. hebr 101 elementary hebrew term: spring, fall credits: 4 an introduction to classical (biblical) hebrew. this series of courses will introduce students to the fundamentals of classical hebrew, focusing on translation and recognition of grammatical forms and syntax. the sequence of courses through hebrew 201 will prepare students to read and interpret ancient texts for a variety of academic and vocational contexts. oﬀered in alternate years. hebr 102 elementary hebrew term: spring, fall credits: 4 an introduction to classical (biblical) hebrew. this series of courses will introduce students to the fundamentals of classical hebrew, focusing on translation and recognition of grammatical forms and syntax. the sequence of courses through hebrew 201 will prepare students to read and interpret ancient texts for a variety of academic and vocational contexts. oﬀered in alternate years. hebr 201 intermediate hebrew term: fall credits: 4 an intermediate course in classical (biblical) hebrew. the course will focus on translation and interpretation of grammatical forms and syntax in narrative prose. the sequence of courses through hebrew 201 will prepare students to read and interpret ancient texts for a variety of academic and vocational contexts. oﬀered in alternate years. degree requirements f10 prerequisites elementary hebrew hebr 415 tutorial assistantship term: spring, fall credits: 2 under the direction of the instructor, the tutorial assistant will be responsible for helping to plan and conduct tutorial sessions for elementary students. assistants will also be introduced to best practices for language instruction. this course is open only to advanced students and by permission of the instructor. arce 120 field research in environmental archaeology term: summer credits: 4 this course and accompanying lab focus on a scientific understanding of the biological and geological methods and theories that are relevant to human/environmental interaction in pre-historic and historic sites of human occupation. research questions to be discussed involve three major areas of study: 1) relationships between site formation processes, environmental change and human activity; 2) plant and animal domestication and exploitation; and 3) methods for dating artifacts. the class and lab are held in may and early june at the ames plantation in tennessee. enrollment is limited; students must apply for acceptance through the director of the archaeology program. degree requirements f7 f11 arce 210 learning from things: material culture studies term: spring credits: 4 while we are symbol users and inhabitants of imagined worlds, we are also tool makers whose hands are “dirtied” in manipulating the world. this course will focus attention on our “materiality” and our engagement with the material world. examples of material culture studies will be drawn from such disciplines as archaeology, anthropology, geography, history, art history, folklore, popular culture, architecture, and museum studies. material culture studies, while a rich source of information is also a challenging arena for the study of individuals, societies and cultures because objects neither “speak” unambiguously nor directly to us. students will come to appreciate how astute observation underpinned by theoretical acumen and the clever framing of questions can allow us to “learn from things.” this course is cross-listed as anthropology/sociology 290. arce 220 archaeological methods credits: 4 this class will examine how we use archaeological materials to learn about past societies by studying the traces that their inhabitants left behind. students will explore the range of methods used in the field, laboratory, and museum to find, record, date, preserve, contextualize, and interpret material culture. basic methods of investigation and research will be discussed through the examination of site survey, excavation, and the analysis of artifacts. students will be introduced to various systems of archaeological classification and analytical techniques for understanding objects such as lithic artifacts, pottery, human skeletal remains, and other historic and prehistoric artifacts. artifact illustration, photography, cataloguing, and curating will also be discussed. this course is cross-listed as anthropology/sociology 254. arce 450 archaeological field school term: summer credits: 4 a supervised training course (ordinarily in the summer) in archaeological methods at a controlled excavation. students will live on the site and participate as crewmembers in the excavation, registration, restoration and publication of archaeological remains. most students will participate in the rhodes summer field school at the ames plantation, but alternative field schools in the usa or abroad are acceptable alternatives pending the approval of the chair of the archaeology program. degree requirements f11 arce 460 internship credits: 4 a supervised learning experience involving archaeological and/or material culture studies out of state, abroad, or in the community outside of the college. this may include museums, laboratories, cultural resource management firms, cultural conservation projects, historical landmarks, surveying firms, etc. the student and the faculty advisor will devise the program of field work and submit it for approval to the chair of the archaeology program. aero 111 air force today term: fall credits: 1 survey course designed to introduce students to the united states air force and air force rotc. topics include air force mission and organization, customs and courtesies, oﬃcer opportunities, problem solving, and communication skills. one class hour per week and one and one-half hours of leadership laboratory. aero 112 air force today term: spring credits: 1 survey course designed to introduce students to the united states air force and air force rotc. topics include air force mission and organization, customs and courtesies, oﬃcer opportunities, problem solving, and communication skills. one class hour per week and one and one-half hours of leadership laboratory. aero 211 the air force way term: fall credits: 1 survey course designed to examine aspects of air and space power through a historical perspective. the course covers the time period from the first balloons and dirigibles to the space age global positioning systems of the persian gulf war. leadership laboratory is mandatory for afrotc cadets. one class hour per week and one and one-half hours of leadership laboratory. aero 212 the air force way term: spring credits: 1 survey course designed to examine aspects of air and space power through a historical perspective. the course covers the time period from the first balloons and dirigibles to the space age global positioning systems of the persian gulf war. leadership laboratory is mandatory for afrotc cadets. one class hour per week and one and one-half hours of leadership laboratory. aero 301 field training term: summer credits: 0 twenty-eight day course conducted during summer at active installation of usaf, consists of approximately 185 hours of instruction in air force base functions, leadership, physical training, air force environment, career orientation, and survival training. students assigned to groups of twenty-five and individually counseled and evaluated on their performance. emphasis on self initiated leadership activities. aero 302 field training term: summer credits: 0 forty-two day course conducted during summer at active installation of usaf. consists of approximately 258 hours of instruction on role of military forces, organization of defense department, instruments of national security, air force base functions, leadership, physical training and air force environment. students are assigned to groups of approximately twenty-five and individually counseled and evaluated on their performance. aero 311 air force leadership and management term: fall credits: 3 study of leadership, air force personnel and evaluation systems, management fundamentals, professional knowledge, leadership ethics, and communication skills required of an air force junior oﬃcer. case studies are used to demonstrate and exercise practical application of concepts studied. three class hours per week and one and one-half hours of leadership laboratory. aero 312 air force leadership and management term: spring credits: 3 study of leadership, air force personnel and evaluation systems, management fundamentals, professional knowledge, leadership ethics, and communication skills required of an air force junior oﬃcer. case studies are used to demonstrate and exercise practical application of concepts studied. three class hours per week and one and one-half hours of leadership laboratory. aero 411 preparation for active duty term: fall credits: 3 examines the national security process, regional studies, advanced leadership ethics, and air force doctrine. special topics include the military as a profession, oﬃcership, military justice, civilian control of the military, and preparation for active duty. within this structure, continued emphasis is given to refining communication skills. three class hours per week and one and one half hours of leadership laboratory. aero 412 preparation for active duty term: spring credits: 3 examines the national security process, regional studies, advanced leadership ethics, and air force doctrine. special topics include the military as a profession, oﬃcership, military justice, civilian control of the military, and preparation for active duty. within this structure, continued emphasis is given to refining communication skills. three class hours per week and one and one half hours of leadership laboratory. mils 100 leadership laboratory term: spring, fall credits: 0 two laboratory hours per week. co-requisite: mils 111 or 112 mils 111 introduction to military science term: fall credits: 1 introduction to army rotc with hands-on approach through several basic military skills. lectures and practical exercises in following areas: rappelling, communications, weapons, first aid, and land navigation. there is no military obligation. co-requisite: mils 100; there is no military obligation./uni00a0 mils 112 principles of leadership and confidence building term: spring credits: 0 basic military first aid skills; lectures and practical exercises in basic emergency treatment for fractures, lacerations, heat and cold injuries; cardiopulmonary resuscitation. co-requisite: mils 100; there is no military obligation./uni00a0 mils 200 leadership laboratory term: spring, fall credits: 0 two laboratory hours per week. co-requisite: mils 210 or 211; there is no military obligation./uni00a0 mils 210 american military history term: fall credits: 3 developments since colonial period; emphasis on background and growth of national military and naval establishments; military and naval thought; diﬃculties accompanying modernization and assumption of global responsibilities; and problems of relationship between civilian and military naval sectors in democracy. co-requisite: mils 200; there is no military obligation./uni00a0 mils 211 fundamental survival term: spring, fall credits: 0 basic military skills including map reading, military first aid skills and small unit leadership. one hour weekly classroom instruction. co-requisite: mils 200; there is no military obligation./uni00a0 mils 214 small unit tactics i term: fall credits: 0 emphasis on preparation of the individual for combat. preparation of potential leaders in combat through study of the knowledge and skills needed by an individual soldier. skill developed in planning and organizing by combat patrols. this course includes series of field practica; there is no military obligation. mils 215 small unit tactics ii term: fall credits: 0 advanced concepts in reconnaissance, raid, and ambush patrolling techniques, extended patrolling operations, and application techniques for specialized equipment; leadership skills through student led patrols. this course includes a series of field practica; there is no military obligation. mils 300 leadership laboratory term: spring, fall credits: 0 two laboratory hours per week. co-requisite: mils 311 or 312 mils 311 applied leadership i term: fall credits: 3 presentation, discussion, practical exercise, and field training on fundamentals of map reading and land navigation; development of skills in individual and small unit tactical planning and operations; and professional subjects in leadership, leadership assessment, and principles of war. three lecture hours per week, three hours physical training per week, and field training exercises on two weekends during semester. co-requisite: mils 300 mils 312 applied leadership ii term: spring credits: 3 continuation of first year advanced course. co-requisite: mils 300 mils 400 leadership laboratory term: spring credits: 0 two laboratory hours per week. co-requisite: mils 411 or 412 mils 411 seminar in leadership and planning term: fall credits: 3 leadership and management skill development in specific areas of oral and written communications, training management, personnel evaluation and counseling, personnel management systems of army, u.s. army logistic systems, military justice, and familiarization with ethics of military professional. this course, in conjunction with army 4121, completes the cadet’s preparation for commissioning as a second lieutenant in the army reserve or national guard. three lecture hours every week, three hours physical training each week, and field training exercises on two weekends during semester. co-requisite: mils 400 mils 412 seminar in organizational leadership term: spring credits: 3 continuation of second year advanced course. co-requisite: mils 400 navy 150 intro naval science term: fall credits: 3 general introduction to the usn and usmc. emphasizes organizational structure, warfare components, and assigned roles/missions of usn/usmc. covers all aspects of naval service from its relative position within dod to the specific warfare communities/career paths. also includes basic elements of leadership and navy core values. designed to give student initial exposure to many elements of naval culture. also provides conceptual framework/working vocabulary for student to use on summer cruise./uni00a0corequisite: navy 151. navy 151 navy leadership lab term: fall credits: 0 focuses on the fundamentals of leadership and general military training to help prepare prospective naval oﬃcers for service in either the navy or marine corps. topics cover general navy/marine corps mission and policies, force protection, operational security, watch standing, physical fitness, nutrition, stress management, and other professional development subjects. consists of a general leadership lab and a specific navy or marine corps lab. navy 250 naval leadership/management term: fall credits: 3 introduces the student to many of the fundamental concepts of leading sailors and marines, which will be expanded upon during the continuum of leadership development throughout nrotc. develops the elements of leadership vital to the eﬀectiveness of navy/marine corps oﬃcers by reviewing the theories and parameters of leadership and management within and outside of the naval service and progressing through values development, interpersonal skills, management skills, and application theory. practical applications are explored through the use of experiential exercises, readings, case studies, and laboratory discussions. corequisite: navy 251. navy 251 naval leadership lab term: fall credits: 0 focuses on the fundamentals of leadership and general military training to help prepare prospective naval oﬃcers for service in either the navy or marine corps. topics cover general navy/marine corps mission and policies, force protection, operational security, watch standing, physical fitness, nutrition, stress management, and other professional development subjects. consists of a general leadership lab and a specific navy or marine corps lab. navy 350 navigation/naval operations i term: fall credits: 3 in-depth study of the theory, principles, procedures, and application of plotting, piloting, and electronic navigation, as well as an introduction to maneuvering boards. students learn piloting techniques, the use of charts, the use of visual and electronic aids, and the theory of operation of both magnetic and gyrocompasses. students develop practical skills in plotting and electronic navigation. other topics include tides, currents, eﬀects of wind/weather, voyage planning, and an application and introduction to the international/inland rules of navigation. the course is supplemented with a review/analysis of case studies involving moral/ethical/leadership issues pertaining to the concepts listed above. corequisite: navy 351. navy 351 navy leadership lab term: fall credits: 0 focuses on the fundamentals of leadership and general military training to help prepare prospective naval oﬃcers for service in either the navy or marine corps. topics cover general navy/marine corps mission and policies, force protection, operational security, watch standing, physical fitness, nutrition, stress management, and other professional development subjects. consists of a general leadership lab and a specific navy or marine corps lab. navy 450 navy ship systems ii/weapons term: fall credits: 3 outlines the theory and employment of weapons systems. student explores the processes of detection, evaluation, threat analysis, weapon selection, delivery, guidance, and explosives. fire control systems and major weapons types are discussed, including capabilities and limitations. the physical aspects of radar and underwater sound are described. facets of command, control, communications, computers, and intelligence are explored as a means of weapons system integration. the tactical and strategic significance of command and control warfare and information warfare is discussed. this course is supplemented with review/ analysis of case studies involving the moral and ethical responsibilities of leaders in the employment of weapons. corequisite: navy 451./uni00a0 navy 451 naval leadership lab term: fall credits: 0 focuses on the fundamentals of leadership and general military training to help prepare prospective naval oﬃcers for service in either the navy or marine corps. topics cover general navy/marine corps mission and policies, force protection, operational security, watch standing, physical fitness, nutrition, stress management, and other professional development subjects. consists of a general leadership lab and a specific navy or marine corps lab. lang 150 selected foreign languages credits: variable certain foreign languages not listed above as regular course oﬀerings are taught on occasion. information concerning languages not regularly taught may be obtained from the registrar or the department chair. lang 240 language aquisition and pedagogy term: spring credits: 4 this course is a survey of a range of issues related to language acquisition and teaching. among the areas covered are instructional methodologies and approaches, second language acquisition theories, language skill development, language teaching and learning technology, communicative and cultural competency, and assessment. /uni00a0 rhodes oﬀers a secondary licensure program within the teaching and learning track of the educational studies major. this program prepares students to teach middle and/or high school in one of eleven endorsement areas, including the following languages: chinese, english, french, german, latin, russian, and spanish. the course of study for secondary licensure students is designed with guidance from faculty members in the discipline in which the student is being certified as well as members of the educational studies program. all secondary licensure candidates are required to double major in educational studies and their endorsement discipline. lang 260 international science fiction and utopia: shaping of ideological landscapes term: spring we are living through a time of great socio-political transformations, and history shows us that many cultural products labeled “science fiction” have become perfect metaphors of our fears and hopes (eg: brave new world and 1984). up to a point, science fiction allows us to objectively see the aspirations and taboos of our intellectual and ideological landscape. but what is then the relation between science fiction and utopia? in this course, we will widely question the limits of these two concepts by bringing together the expertise of a whole variety of scholars from both rhodes and the memphis community, from the fields of modern languages, physics, english, russian, biology, neuroscience, gender studies and film studies. we will go far beyond the limits of anglo-saxon cultural production and engage a body of international cultural texts and films, which could help us understand the limits and points of contact of each tradition/culture. the possibility of bringing into the picture of cultural analysis not just humanists, but also scientists from diﬀerent fields, will allow us to expand the concept of “utopia” beyond its understanding within the literary tradition and to explore the “utopic” component of the diﬀerent sciences as well. lang 280 introduction to general linquistics term: spring credits: 4 the introduction to general linguistics course presents language as a specific object of knowledge, thought, science, and philosophy. students will be introduced to the major linguistic theories and examine language as a system and structure at its various levels, as well as a tool to guide, plan, and monitor human activity. oﬀered in alternate years. degree requirements f9 lang 460 internship term: spring, fall credits: 1-4 internships in the departmental languages are occasionally available for language majors and permit a qualified student to receive academic credit for an internship experience on or oﬀ campus, for example by working with a business, a non-profit organization, or within the department itself. the internship, which requires of the student an advanced competence in a foreign language, must entail a significant encounter with a foreign language. working with a faculty mentor, students must submit a project proposal for the internship prior to the beginning of the internship itself. the completed project will be graded by the faculty mentor. intradepartmental internships will be reserved for students planning to continue their studies in a foreign language and culture beyond the undergraduate level. such internal internships will involve working with a faculty mentor on projects of a diverse nature that seek to enhance the program oﬀerings of the language section. placements must be approved by the faculty mentor who teaches the language in question and the chair of the department. internship credit will not be awarded retroactively and does not count toward the total number of credits required for the major. pass/fail only. degree requirements f11 hleq 210 introduction to health equity term: fall credits: 4 a community-engaged course that explores health as a social construction, paying special attention to how and why social determinants of health and health disparities produce predictably worse health outcomes for stigmatized populations. we aim to increase our ability to think structurally about the complex relationships between social class, racialized identity, access to health care, neighborhoods, and health outcomes. /uni00a0 degree requirements f9 f11 hleq 410 health equity and health disparities credits: 4 this course explores health as a social construction, paying special attention to how and why social determinants of health and health disparities produce predictably worse health outcomes for stigmatized populations. degree requirements f9 f11 hleq 415 intercultural communication for health and healthcare term: summer credits: 4 this course examines how communication practices diﬀer across cultures and social groups. students will develop skills that help them communicate more eﬀectively in clinical settings where healthcare providers and patients may occupy very diﬀerent social locations. students will make site visits and engage in role playing to imrove their communication skills. /uni00a0 hleq 420 developing cultural humility term: spring credits: 4 this course interrogates the role that unconscious bias performs in the practices, policies, and attitudes of healthcare practitioners, a performance that results in diminished health outcomes for stigmatized populations. this course will aim to (1) foster an awareness of this reality and (2) develop a set of skills that will minimize the eﬀects of bias ans increase equity in health outcomes. hleq 430 narrative medicine and inequality term: fall credits: 4 this course introduces students to the methods of narrative medicine as a practice that contributes to high-quality person-centered care. students will learn techniques for skillful listening that is attentive to the ways persons who occupy diﬀerent social locations narrate their embodied experiences. the course explores how a narrative approach might be especially useful in addressing disparities related to social inequalities. hleq 435 global health and local practice term: spring, summer credits: 4 this course introduces students to global health disparities and examines eﬀorts currently underway to address them. taking an anthropological approach, students will explore key political, economic, ecological, and sociocultural factors that contribute to (or reduce) global health inequity. students will learn to think critically and creatively about the policies, systems, values, and ethical challenges that shape global health priorities and influence health care access and utilization. by the end of this course, students will have an increased understanding of the micro dynamics of local worlds and the macro dynamics of large-scale social forces that present contemporary challenges for global health researchers, policy makers, and practitioners./uni00a0 hleq 440 politics of health and healthcare policy term: fall credits: 4 this course explores the politics of health care policy making in the united states. in order to understand health care policy making in the u.s., the course will explore the history of health care policy making in the u.s., the philosophical underpinnings of the role of health in social and political relations, health luck, and health justice, and the economics of health care demand and health care supply. the course will also place the u.s. experience with health care in a comparative global context. the course will also explore the way power dynamics influence the way we think about, experience, and attempt to influence health care policy in the u.s. as such, the course will explore the factors that influence one’s health including social determinants such as education, geography, income, and race; access to health care; genetics; environmental factors; lifestyle factors; as well as the ways other public policies, such as transportation, welfare, and education, influence health. hleq 445 research methods in health disparities credits: 4 this course examines a variety of qualitative and quantitative approaches to research on health disparities. students will learn to link substantive research questions to appropriate research methods and will develop an understanding of critical questions and ethics in research approaches. plaw 151 united states politics term: spring, fall credits: 4 what is the foundation of government in the united states? what are its purposes? how is the constitution of government designed to achieve those purposes? how well does it in fact fulfill those purposes? major topics and controversies include the nature of politics, individual liberty and constitutionalism, the federal structure of government, elections and political parties, interest groups, representation, congress, the presidency, the judiciary, civil rights and liberties. some sections may be open only to first year students, and all sections are open to seniors only by permission of the department. advanced placement credit in political science or government counts only as four general credits toward the major. therefore, all political science majors must take 151. degree requirements f2i f8 plaw 205 introduction to public policy term: fall credits: 4 in short, public policy includes whatever government chooses to do or not to do. as such, this course will explore the reasons why government acts, how government acts, and the types of actions it takes. the course is not designed to convince you whether particular public policies are good or bad, but to think carefully and analytically about why they exist and how they function. the course is not about any particular public policy. /uni00a0however, the course will engage a wide variety of contemporary public policy debates in the areas of health care, welfare, the environment, regulation of business, energy, transportation, and education to provide examples of the concepts and theories we will discuss in the course. prerequisites united states politics plaw 205 introduction to public policy term: spring, fall credits: 4 in short, public policy includes whatever government chooses to do or not to do. as such, this course will explore the reasons why government acts, how government acts, and the types of actions it takes. the course is not designed to convince you whether particular public policies are good or bad, but to think carefully and analytically about why they exist and how they function. the course is not about any particular public policy. /uni00a0however, the course will engage a wide variety of contemporary public policy debates in the areas of health care, welfare, the environment, regulation of business, energy, transportation, and education to provide examples of the concepts and theories we will discuss in the course. prerequisites united states politics plaw 206 urban politics and policy term: spring, fall credits: 4 a critical introduction to urban america’s fiscal and racial problems, formal and informal political processes, power structures, and alternative futures. we will also discuss problems and processes of policy formation in the urban system. prerequisites united states politics plaw 207 race and ethnic politics term: spring, fall credits: 4 a general survey of minority politics in the united states. we will explore the historic and contemporary importance of race and ethnicity in american politics, particularly in relation to political institutions, political parties, voting coalitions, representation, and public policy. attention is paid to how the structures of the american political system disadvantage minority groups as they attempt to gain the full benefits of american society. in addition to exploring the diﬀerent agendas and strategies adopted by racial and ethnic minority groups, this course also shows how intertwined minority politics and american politics have been and continue to be. not oﬀered every year. prerequisites united states politics plaw 208 media and politics term: spring, fall credits: 4 an investigation of the power of media in american society and the interaction between media, institutions, political actors, and the public. topics covered may include the evolving role of media as an institution in the political system, media ownership, media bias, race and gender in media, media fragmentation, the relationship between media and public opinion, the role of news and advertising in political campaigns, media coverage in crisis and wartime, and the impact of new media on society. underlying these topics, we consider the question of whether the role and function of media today are helpful for or detrimental to political learning, participation, and democratic government. students will have the chance to explore ideas, concepts, and themes through real-world, hands-on applications. not eligible if you have completed the topics course on media and politics. prerequisites united states politics plaw 211 politics and literature term: spring, fall credits: 4 this course explores how literature (and the arts generally) express political ideas and pursue political purposes. topics and readings vary but they include: literary depictions of political causes, political crises, war and peace, leaders and followers, conflicts of individuals and society, and the competing demands of nature and civilization. authors read in this course might include: sophocles, shakespeare, defoe, stendahl, austen, dickens, melville, hawthorne, twain, robert penn warren, ralph ellison, don delillo, phillip roth and tom wolfe. not oﬀered every year. plaw 212 american political thought and statesmanship term: spring, fall credits: 4 a survey of the ideas and controversies in american political thought and development from the puritans to the present. topics may include: the philosophical origins of the declaration of independence and the constitution, selfishness and morality, federalism, the democratization of politics, equality and slavery, laissez-faire capitalism and the welfare state, the civil rights movement, and the redefinitions of freedom and equality by, for example, the new left and feminism. not oﬀered every year. prerequisites united states politics plaw 230 black political thought term: summer credits: 4 a critical analysis of a variety of political goals, strategies, and tactics espoused since reconstruction. views of booker t. washington, marcus garvey, w.e.b. dubois, martin luther king, jr., and malcolm x are among those normally considered. degree requirements f9 prerequisites united states politics plaw 240 urban education policy term: spring credits: 4 this course explores the special challenges of designing eﬀective public education policy for today’s postindustrial cities paying special attention to the challenges found in memphis. after framing the policy dilemmas in light of political, social, economic and educational history, the course critically examines a variety of contemporary proposals related to issues such as common core, standardized testing, teacher accountability, class size, school hours, charter schools, school vouchers and early childhood education. prerequisites united states politics plaw 245 southern politics term: spring, fall credits: 4 an examination of politics in the american south, with special attention to political parties and elections. politics at the state level is considered, along with the place of the south in the national political arena. not oﬀered every year. prerequisites united states politics plaw 262 trial procedure term: fall credits: 2 students study and practice trial procedure. topics include opening statements, direct examination, cross examination, closing statements, objections, and preparing a witness./uni00a0this course is required for mock trial participation. this course does not count toward the major or minor/uni00a0in political science. plaw 263 mock trial participation term: spring credits: 1 preparation for and participation in intercollegiate mock trial competitions. participants prepare cases around assigned sets of facts. they then practice and compete in roles of both lawyer and witness./uni00a0 a total of 4 credits may be earned for mock trial participation./uni00a0 this course does not count toward the major or minor/uni00a0in political science. prerequisites trial procedure plaw 264 rights of the accused term: spring credits: 4 an academic assessment of rights of criminal defendants under the sixth, eighth, and fourteenth amendments. topics include the right to counsel, prosecutorial discretion and disclosures, the confrontation clause, defenses and immunities (stand your ground laws, insanity pleas), and the death penalty./uni00a0 this course does not count toward the major or minor/uni00a0in political science. plaw 270 methods of political inquiry term: spring, fall credits: 4 why do political scientists call themselves scientists? how can we learn about politics using the tools of scientific inquiry? what are the tools of scientific inquiry? this course introduces the methods political scientists (and others) use to generate and answer empirical questions about politics. we explore a wide variety of quantitative and qualitative research methods, including experiments, observation, interviews, and surveys. students in this course will develop their own research question and literature review, test hypotheses, and analyze data. this course is recommended for the sophomore year and must be taken by the end of the junior year. prerequisites united states politics plaw 280 topics in american politics, government, and policy term: spring, fall credits: 4 an examination of some aspect of american politics and institutions of government. topics might include: the judiciary, state and local government, intergovernmental relations, american political development, the legislative process, campaign finance, political communication. not oﬀered every year. prerequisites united states politics plaw 283 topics in public law term: spring, fall credits: 4 an examination of some aspect of law and the judicial branch. topics might include: the 1st amendment, the 14th amendment, state and local law, legal reform, and administrative law. not oﬀered every year. prerequisites united states politics plaw 286 topics in political thought and philosophy term: spring, fall credits: 4 an examination of some aspect of political thought and philosophy./uni00a0not oﬀered every year. prerequisites united states politics plaw 301 civil liberties term: fall credits: 4 an examination of the federal judicial process and american constitutional principles. constitutional topics include free speech and assembly, church-state relations, abortion, gay rights, euthanasia, and rights of the accused. not eligible if you have completed pols 301 constitutional law and politics. prerequisites methods of political inquiry, one other 200 level pols course, or permission of the instructor. degree requirements f3 prerequisites methods of political inquiry plaw 305 public policy analysis term: spring, fall credits: 4 the objective of this course is to introduce students to the field of public policy analysis. rather than focusing on the institutions that make public policy, such as legislatures, presidents, governors, and courts, or the groups that impact the policymaking process, such as interest groups and the media; this course provides students with an introduction to the tools used to analyze policies and a discussion of the political elements that aﬀect this analysis. the course will be composed of several diﬀerent elements: 1) a discussion of the various meanings of public policy analysis, 2) a presentation of the basic economic and political tools used to analyze public policies, and 3) practice at analyzing current policy controversies. essentially, the goal is to ensure that student understand the basic economic principles used to evaluate diﬀerent public policy proposals. however, as this is a political science course, other principal goals are to highlight the weaknesses of some of these economic assumptions, discover how politics may alter these otherwise sound assumptions, and examine the political environment in which policies are analyzed and adopted. this course does not focus on any one policy area, so students are encouraged to bring their own policy interests to the course. not eligible if you have already completed the topics course on public policy analysis. not oﬀered every year. prerequisites:/uni00a0 methods of political inquiry and introduction to public policy or introduction to economics, or the permission of the instructor. plaw 308 political advertising term: spring, fall credits: 4 political advertising is potentially the most important component of modern political campaigns, particularly in high-level races./uni00a0in some cases, political ads can consume over one-half of the campaign budget targeting incumbents or challengers with emotional appeals and/or dramatic attacks./uni00a0we are also experiencing dramatic shifts in campaigning as more candidates craft on-line and social media appeals./uni00a0parties and interest groups target key contests and insert their own messages into campaign discourse./uni00a0this course gives students the chance to explore the research, debates, and timely cases from the academic study of political advertising. not oﬀered every year. prerequisites methods of political inquiry and one other 200 level course or permission of the instructor. plaw 318 poverty and public policy term: spring, fall credits: 4 this course explores the conditions and causes of poverty in the united states and the economic, social, and political responses to it. during the first half of the course, we will examine who is poor in america and discuss various causal theories of why people are poor. during the second half of the course, we will evaluate policy to address poverty in america and analyze them on how well they have reduced poverty and what is still needed to be done. not oﬀered every year. prerequisites: methods of political inquiry and one other 200 level course, or the permission of the instructor. plaw 319 race, housing and urban revitalization term: spring, fall credits: 4 why are some urban areas thriving while others continue to struggle? this course will explore the history—and legacy—of our eﬀorts to revitalize our urban centers. we will examine the lifecycle of a cross-section of urban communities, the forces behind their decline, the policies and key stakeholders who spearheaded their revival and explore why some have not yet recovered. this course places special emphasis on the role race has—and continues to play—in our housing and urban policies and explores the policy conflicts and tensions that arise over who pays the costs of urban revitalization. not oﬀered every year. prerequisites:/uni00a0 methods of political inquiry and one other 200 level course, or the permission of the instructor. plaw 319 race, housing and urban revitalization term: fall credits: 4 why are some urban areas thriving while others continue to struggle? this course will explore the history—and legacy—of our eﬀorts to revitalize our urban centers. we will examine the lifecycle of a cross-section of urban communities, the forces behind their decline, the policies and key stakeholders who spearheaded their revival and explore why some have not yet recovered. this course places special emphasis on the role race has—and continues to play—in our housing and urban policies and explores the policy conflicts and tensions that arise over who pays the costs of urban revitalization. not oﬀered every year. pre-requisites: methods of political inquiry and one other 200 level course, or permission of the instructor. plaw 320 health care policy term: spring, fall credits: 4 this course examines the politics of health care policymaking in the united states./uni00a0the course will spend a substantial amount of time addressing the passage and implementation of the patient protection and a ﬀordable care act of 2010, but will also provide an historical context in which to place recent health care legislation./uni00a0while the course focuses on the u.s. experience, it does also include an examination of approaches to health care in other countries as a way of placing the u.s. experience in a larger context. not oﬀered every year. prerequisites: methods of political inquiry and one other 200 level course, or the permission of the instructor. plaw 340 the american presidency term: spring, fall credits: 4 an exploration of the constitutional, historical and political aspects of the presidency. specific topics include the selection of the president, presidential leadership, personality, relations with congress and the supreme court, and the vice presidency. prerequisites: methods of political inquiry and one other 200 level course, or permissions of the instructor. plaw 360 congress term: spring, fall credits: 4 the united states congress is a rarity among representative assemblies in the rest of the world; it actually legislates, and individual members of the house and the senate directly aﬀect legislation and policy. why then is it also the least respected branch of our national government? is it failing to legislate eﬀectively? to represent fairly? this entire course explores these questions. specific topics include: representation; the framers’ original design for house and senate; the evolution of house and senate; elections and incumbency; campaign finance and interest groups; the internal organization of the two houses; the struggle for power between president and congress. prerequisites: methods of political inquiry and one other 200 level course, or the permission of the instructor. plaw 380 intermediate topics in american politics, government, and policy term: spring, fall credits: 4 an examination of some aspect of american politics and institutions of government./uni00a0topics vary from year to year and students may repeat the course accordingly. not oﬀered every year. prerequisites: methods of political inquiry and one other 200 level course, or the permission of the instructor. plaw 386 intermediate topics in political thought and philosophy term: spring, fall credits: 4 problems of justice, law and morality explored through classic and contemporary works of political philosophy and literature. topics vary from year to year and students may repeat the course accordingly. not oﬀered every year. prerequisites: methods of political inquiry and one of the following american political thought and statesmanship, modern ideologies, philosophy of law, justice, equality, and liberty, black political thought, hum201 (politics track), or the permission of the instructor. plaw 399 junior honors tutorial term: spring credits: 1 junior political science majors who are considering pursuing honors research are required to enroll in this preparatory tutorial. enrollment in this course does not guarantee acceptance into the honors program. plaw 440 seminar in the constitutional convention term: spring, fall credits: 4 a study of the constitutional convention of 1787 as a political event with philosophical underpinnings. special topics include the political environment, the major actors and controversies, the ratification debates, and continuing issues of constitutional reform. not oﬀered every year. prerequisite: one 300 level course, or permission of the instructor. plaw 451 research practicum term: fall credits: 1-4 this course allows qualified students to become active participants in ongoing departmental research projects. no more than 4 practicum credits may count towards the major. this course may be taken pass/fail with approval of the instructor. plaw 452 research practicum term: spring credits: 1-4 this course allows qualified students to become active participants in ongoing departmental research projects. no more than 4 practicum credits may count towards the major. this course may be taken pass/fail with approval of the instructor. plaw 460 public a ﬀairs internship term: spring, fall credits: 4 the focus of this course is a directed internship with a selected legal, governmental or community agency. the course integrates traditional academic work in political science with practical internship experiences. all internships/uni00a0must be approved by/uni00a0the department of political science internship director. students should contact career services and the internship director prior to enrollment to discuss the internship application process. students may not receive any credit toward a political science major from this course if they have received transfer credits for an internship from the washington semester/uni00a0or capitol semester programs. prerequisites: two political science courses and permission of the instructor. degree requirements f11 plaw 461 internship in political science term: spring, fall credits: 1-2 similar to plaw 460 but does not require class meetings and does not fulfill an f11 degree requirement. internship credit will not be awarded retroactively and does not count toward the total number of credits required for the major. pass/fail only plaw 480 advanced topics in american politics, government, and policy term: spring, fall credits: 4 an investigation of an important subject area within the discipline of political science. topics might include constitutional controversies, the legislative process, political communication and behavior, campaign design and strategy. not oﬀered every year. prerequisites: one 300 level course plaw 485 senior seminar in political science term: spring, fall credits: 4 an advanced investigation of critical political problems and/or contemporary perspectives on american democracy. plaw 495 honors tutorial term: fall credits: 4 an advanced independent study, involving the completion of a major research project. guidelines for honors work in political science are available from the department chairperson. plaw 496 honors tutorial term: spring credits: 4 an advanced independent study, involving the completion of a major research project. guidelines for honors work in political science are available from the department chairperson. mst 120 acting for new media term: spring, fall credits: 4 this course focuses on acting for screen media, including fundamentals of character building, improvisation, and on-camera technique. in addition to ongoing performance training, students will practice the basics of digital video production and will be encouraged to develop their unique perspective as a new media artist. /uni00a0 degree requirements f5 mst 202 topics in media studies credits: 4 this course oﬀers an introduction to thinking critically about the power and influence of visual media. topics vary by semester, but in all sections, analysis is grounded in cultural studies; feminist, anti-racist, or queer theoretical approaches; and poststructuralism. /uni00a0 mst 240 public speaking term: spring, fall credits: 4 this course provides students with frequent opportunities to practice oral communication skills. students study the fundamentals of healthy and eﬃcient voice production, as well as the use of the voice and body as instruments of expression and persuasion. mst 245 screenwriting term: spring credits: 4 a hands-on introduction to generating scripts for film, television, and new media. students will study the basics of the form, develop solo writing projects, and participate in a simulated writer's room to practice collective creation. the course will emphasize process, including how to give and receive reflective feedback. mst 250 podcasting term: spring credits: 4 students will learn the fundamentals of podcasting, and each will develop their own narrative- driven, scripted podcast concept. within the support of a creative workshop setting, students will each write and produce a pilot episode of their podcast. mst 265 lgbtq+ culture in media term: spring credits: 4 a deep dive into the politics and poetics of lgbtq+ cultures onscreen. the course focuses on the study of representations of gender and sexual minorities in contemporary feature films, experimental video, animation, scripted and reality tv, music videos, web series, commercials, and video games. this is also a practicum class: over the course of the semester, students plan and produce a piece of original media using the skills of the students enrolled. mst 380 american television term: spring credits: 4 this course oﬀers an examination of american television as cultural communication, paying close attention to its texts and technologies, contexts and audiences. it explores how media scholars have conceptualized and theorized television. the course also examines particular tv genres and investigates the impact of new media and globalization on contemporary television. mst 385 film and media theory credits: 4 this course oﬀers a historical and critical overview of film and media theory from the origins of classical film to developments in social media. it considers questions of medium specificity as well as media convergence. students will learn how to analyze the ideological eﬀects of media, particularly around issues of racial and sexual diﬀerence, national identity, capitalism, and power. mst 460 media studies internship term: spring, fall credits: 2-4 the internship program allows media studies students to apply theoretical, analytical, or production skills learned in the classroom. students have the opportunity to work with film and media organizations (e.g., production companies, memphis and shelby county film and tv commission, levitt shell, etc.). internships must be approved by the program chair. in addition to the internship itself, students will work on weekly journal entries and reflection essays. they will also meet regularly with the program chair. mst 485 senior seminar credits: 4 this course oﬀers a focused exploration of special issues or critical problems in media studies. it culminates in a major research essay or media product. ppe 110 philosophy, politics, and economics credits: 4 this is the introductory course for the philosophy, politics and economics major, but we welcome all students. the political economy program explores the relationships between ways of organizing political life (e.g., aristocracy, pure democracy, liberal democracy) and ways of organizing economic life (e.g., free-market capitalism, socialism, communism). how do economic systems advance or frustrate the goals of political orders? the right goals of a political and economic order, however, cannot be determined without exploring an array of philosophical questions: what is justice? what is the best way of life for human beings? is economic prosperity necessary to that way of life? how can political and economic orders manage the conflicts between individual selfishness and common goods? are human beings equal? in what ways should we be equal and free? what do we owe ourselves and what do we owe others? to what degree ought we to obey a government? we will then delve into contentious public policy problems (e.g., the distribution of wealth, income inequality, aﬃrmative action, immigration, sexual discrimination), each of which poses moral, political, and economic questions. in general, our goal will be to think honestly and precisely about the quandaries of social, political, and economic life./uni00a0this course is open to first- year students, sophomores,/uni00a0and those with permission of the instructor. degree requirements f2i ppe 486 senior seminar in philosophy, politics, and economics term: spring credits: 4 senior seminar oﬀers students the opportunity to integrate and extend their understanding of the various areas of theory, history, politics, philosophy and policy studied as a philosophy, politics, and economics major. 2000 north parkway / memphis, tennessee 38112 / 800.844.5969 / 901.843.3000 search terms or phrases